User Guide                     English (3–11)



Guía del usuario             Español (12–21)



Guide d’utilisation         Français (22–31)



Guida per l’uso              Italiano (32–41)



Benutzerhandbuch             Deutsch (42–51)



Appendix                     English (53–54)




        Powered by Serato DJ Pro
2
User Guide (English)
Introduction
Thank you for purchasing the ONE. At Rane, performance and reliability mean as much to us
as they do to you. That’s why we design our equipment with only one thing in mind—to make
your performance the best it can be.


Box Contents

ONE
Power Cable
USB Cable
Software Download Card
User Guide
Safety & Warranty Manual



Support

For the latest information about this product (documentation, technical specifications, system
requirements, compatibility information, etc.) and product registration, visit rane.com.
For additional product support, visit rane.com/support.




                                                                                             3
Setup

1. Assemble the Platter System

1. Remove the ONE base from the packaging. Remove the platter assemblies
   from the package (underneath ONE). Place ONE on a flat, stable surface
   for assembly and operation.
2. Place the platters onto each deck of the ONE base by aligning the pins in
   the bottom of the platter with the holes in ONE’s motor. Press it down
   firmly. Check to make sure that it rotates uniformly and does not wobble
   excessively.
3. Place the slipmat onto the platter. Then place the Control Disc over the
   spindle (with the attached Quick Release Adapter on top). To lock the
   Control Disc to the spindle, pinch the top of the spindle while slowly
   rotating the disc until you hear it click. It locks when the groove in the
   spindle lines up directly opposite to the button on the side of the Quick
   Release Adapter.




2. Connect and Start DJing!

1. Make sure you have downloaded and installed the latest version of your DJ software.
2. Place ONE on a flat, stable surface.
3. While the power is switched off, plug the included power cable into ONE first, then plug the
   cable into a power outlet.
4. Power on ONE using the power switch.
5. Use a standard USB cable (included) to connect the USB Port to an available USB port on your
   computer or a powered hub connected to the computer.
6. Open Serato DJ Pro and go!
    For more information on how to use Serato DJ Pro with the ONE, please visit
    support.serato.com.

Example
                                       Turntable

                                                                                           Computer



       Microphone

        Powered
      Loudspeakers                                                                                    Power




                                                                          Booth Monitors

Items not listed under Introduction > Box Contents are sold separately.



4
Features

Top Panel


           18                                      17          2       1         1         2
                            20
           19                                           23     3           7               3
                            21                                             8
                                                        24     4                           4
                                                                      9              10
                                                        25     5                11         5
                            22                                 6            12             6

                                                                      13             13

                                 28                      26     15          14            15
      29                                      27
      30        31                            39
                     34 35 36 37 38
                                              40
           32               33
                                                         28                16
                                            41 42


1.   Deck Source: Set this knob to the desired audio source from this channel: USB A or B (a track
     playing on that layer in the software), or Line (a device connected to the Deck Phono/Line In on
     the rear panel).
     Note: If you select Line, set the Phono/Line selector switches on the rear panel properly.
     Note: A deck’s controls will send MIDI information only when its deck source selector is set to
     USB A or B.
     Note: If you are using DVS with ONE, connect your turntables to the phono input, but set the
     Deck Source selector to USB A or B, whichever your computer is connected to.
2.   Deck Level: Turn this knob to set the pre-fader, pre-EQ audio level of the corresponding
     channel. The meter next to this knob indicates the signal’s volume level (reduce it if it begins
     "clipping," reaching the red part of the meter).
3.   Deck EQ High: Turn this knob to adjust the high (treble) frequencies. Note: All EQ controls
                                                                           are full-kill.
4.   Deck EQ Mid: Turn this knob to adjust the mid-range frequencies.
5.   Deck EQ Low: Turn this knob to adjust the low (bass) frequencies.
6.   Deck LP/HP: Turn this knob to adjust the filter applied to the deck. Turn the knob
     counterclockwise to apply a low-pass filter. Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass filter.
     Set it to the center (“12:00”) position to deactivate the filters.
7.   Main: Turn this knob to adjust the output volume of the program mix. The meters next to this
     knob indicate the audio signal level of the program mix.
8.   Booth: Turn this knob to adjust the output volume of the Booth Outs.
9.   Depth: Turn this knob to adjust the “wet-dry” mix of the internal Flex FX on that deck.

                                                                                                    5
10.   Beat: Turn this knob to set the Time Division for the selected effects.
11.   Tap: Press this button multiple times at the desired tempo to manually set the BPM rate for
      beat-tempo effects, per channel.
12.   FX 1–6: Press one of these buttons to activate or deactivate the corresponding software effect
      shown in the Serato software FX 1 and FX 2. Pressing the buttons will activate one effect at a
      time, or pressing and holding the buttons will activate multiple effects at once.
13.   Effects Toggle: Move this toggle switch away from you to activate the software effects—the toggle
      will latch to that position. Pull the toggle back to the center position to deactivate the effects.
      Pull and hold this toggle toward you to activate the software effects momentarily, and release
      the toggle to deactivate the effects—the toggle will return to the center position.
14.   Deck Cue: Press this button to send this deck’s pre-fader signal to the cue channel for
      monitoring. When engaged, the button will be lit. To cue multiple channels simultaneously,
      press the Deck Cue buttons for both decks.
15.   Deck Fader: Move this fader to adjust the volume level of the corresponding deck.
16.   Crossfader: Move this fader to mix between the decks.
17.   Search: The length of this strip represents the length of the entire track. Place your finger on a
      point along this sensor to jump to that point in the track. The LEDs above the strip indicate the
      approximate location of the playhead in the track.
18.   Scroll/Load / Instant Doubles: Turn this knob to browse through lists and press it to select an
      item or load the currently selected track to the deck.
      Press this knob twice quickly to load the same track to both decks (“instant doubles”).
19.   Back / Load Prep: Press this button to view the previous screen in the software.
      Hold Shift and press this button to load the currently selected track to the Prepare Crate.
20.   High Torque Direct Drive Platter: A powerful motor turns this aluminum platter with speed
      position dots. Use the Motor Torque switch on the rear panel to adjust the torque of the platters
      Note: The platter itself should not be held in position for sustained periods while powered to
      rotate.
21.   Control Disc with Slipmat: This 7.2" (18.2 cm) disc controls the audio playhead in your DJ
      software. Place the included slipmat under the Control Disc (or a different slipmat can be
      used, if preferred).
      Note: The Control Disc can be user replaced by attaching the Quick Release Adapter to your
      own modified disc. The replacement disc must have three 6 mm holes, and the included disc
      should be used as a reference.
22.   Quick Release Adapter: This secures the Control Disc to the platter. It comes attached to
      the top of the Control Disc. To remove the Control Disc or slipmat from the platter, hold in the
      button on the side of the Quick Release Adapter while lifting the disc off the spindle. After
      placing the disc back on the spindle, pinch the top of the spindle while slowly rotating the disc
      until you hear it click. It locks when the groove in the spindle lines up directly opposite to the
      button on the side of the Quick Release Adapter.
23.   Stop Time: Controls the rate at which the platter slows to a complete stop (“brake time”).
24.   Slip / Motor Off: Press this button to enable or disable Slip Mode. In Slip Mode, you can jump
      to Hot Cue Points, trigger Loop Rolls, or use the platters, while the track’s timeline continues. In
      other words, when you stop the action, the track will resume normal playback from where it
      would have been if you had never done anything (i.e., as if the track had been playing forward
      the whole time).
      Press and hold Shift and press this button to activate or deactivate the corresponding platter’s
      motor. This will not affect the track’s playback.




6
25.   Censor / Reverse: Press and hold this button to activate Censor, which temporarily reverses
      the playback of the track. Release the button to resume normal playback from where it would
      have been if you had never engaged the Censor function (i.e., as if the track had been playing
      forward the whole time).
      Press Shift and press this button to activate Reverse, which will reverse the playback of the track.
      Press the button again to resume normal playback from wherever the audio playhead stops.
26.   Pitch Fader: Move this fader to adjust the speed (pitch) of the track. You can adjust its total
      range with the Pitch Range buttons.
27.   Pitch Range / Keylock: Press one of these buttons to adjust the range of the Pitch Fader to
      ±8%, ±16%, and ±50%.
      Press and hold Shift and then press this button to activate or deactivate Keylock: the key of the
      song will lock to whatever position the pitch fader is at when Keylock is activated. This feature
      allows you to change the speed of the song without changing the key.
28.   Pitch Bend -/+: Press and hold one of these buttons to momentarily reduce or increase
      (respectively) the speed of the track.
29.   Shift: Press and hold this button to access secondary functions of other controls on ONE.
30.   Cue / Previous: When the Deck is paused, you can set a Temporary Cue Point by moving the
      platter to place the playhead at the desired location and then pressing the Cue Button.
      During playback, you can press the Cue Button to return the track to this Temporary Cue
      Point. (If you did not set a Temporary Cue Point, then it will return to the beginning of the track.)
      If the Deck is paused, you can press and hold the Cue Button to play the track from the
      Temporary Cue Point. Releasing the Cue Button will return the track to the Temporary Cue
      Point and pause it. To continue playback without returning to the Temporary Cue Point, press
      and hold the Cue Button, then press and hold the Play Button, and then release both buttons.
      Press and hold Shift and then press this button to "stutter-play" the track by returning to the
      beginning of the track and restarting playback.
31.   Sync / Sync Off: Press this button to automatically match the corresponding Deck’s tempo
      with the opposite Deck’s tempo and phase.
      Press and hold Shift and press this button to deactivate Sync.
32.   Start/Stop: Press this button to start and stop the platter. The LED around this button will be
      dim when power is on and no track is playing, bright when a track is playing, and flashing red
      when the track is near its end.
33.   Performance Pads: These pads have different functions on each deck depending on the
      current pad mode.
      Note: See Operation > Pad Modes to learn how to use the pads in each mode, described below.
34.   Hot Cue / Pitch Play: Press this button to enter Hot Cue mode. Press the button a second
      time to enter Pitch Play mode.
      Note: The Serato Pitch N Time plugin (not included) is required to use Pitch Play mode.
35.   Saved Loop: Press this button to enter Saved Loop mode.
36.   Roll / Auto Loop: Press this button to enter Roll mode. Press the button a second time to
      enter Auto Loop mode.
37.   Sampler / Scratch Bank: Press this button to enter Sampler mode. Press the button a second
      time to enter Scratch Bank mode. In this mode, you can assign songs to each pad in the
      software, and then tap the pad to quickly load the song from the specified starting point to the
      deck. This is useful for preparing and performing with song samples for scratching.
38.   Slicer / Slicer Loop: Press this button to enter Slicer mode. Press the button a second time to
      enter Slicer Loop mode.
39.   Parameter /: Use these buttons for various functions in each pad mode. Press and hold
      Shift and use these buttons to access secondary parameters.




                                                                                                         7
40.   Loop On/Off / Reloop: Press this button to create an auto-loop with the length that is set in
      the software.
      Press and hold Shift and then press this button to skip to the last-played loop and activate it
      immediately.
      Note: Roll sizes will affect loop sizes in the software and loop based on the last roll size.
41.   Loop In / x1/2: Press this button to create a Loop In point at the current location.
      Press and hold Shift and press this button to halve the length of the current loop.
42.   Loop Out / x2: Press this button to create a Loop Out point at the current location.
      Press and hold Shift and press this button to double the length of the current loop.


Front Panel

          2              5                    8             9             11        13

      1        3     4       6            7       7                            12        14
                                                                10

1.    Mic 1 – Off/On: When set to Off, the Mic 1 Input is disabled. When set to On, the Mic 1 Input on
      the rear panel is active, and its audio signal is routed directly to the program mix and cue mix.
2.    Mic 1 Level: Turn this knob to adjust the gain of the Mic 1 Input.
3.    Mic 1 Tone: Turn this knob to adjust the balance of low (bass) and high (treble) frequencies of
      the audio signal coming from the Mic 1 Input.
4.    Mic 2 – Aux/Off/Mic 2: When set to Aux, the Aux In on the rear panel is active. When set to
      Off, the Aux Input and Mic 2 Input are both disabled. When set to Mic 2, the Mic 2 Input on
      the rear panel is active, and its audio signal is routed directly to the program mix and cue mix.
      Both audio signals are routed directly to the program mix and cue mix when active.
5.    Mic 2 / Aux Level: Turn this knob to adjust the gain of the Mic 2 Input or AUX Input.
6.    Mic 2 / Aux Tone: Turn this knob to adjust the balance of low (bass) and high (treble)
      frequencies of the audio signal coming from the Mic 2 Input or AUX Input.
7.    Deck Reverse: Set this switch to On to reverse the direction of the deck faders. Set it to Off to
      use the conventional fader direction.
8.    Deck Contour: Adjusts the slope of the deck fader curve. Turn the knob to the left for a
      smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching). The center position is a typical
      setting for club performances.
9.    Crossfader Contour: Adjusts the slope of the crossfader curve. Turn the knob to the left for a
      smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching). The center position is a typical
      setting for club performances.
10.   Crossfader Reverse: Set this switch to On to reverse the direction of the crossfader. Set it to
      Off to use the conventional fader direction.
11.   Cue Mix: Turn to mix between the cue channel and program mix in the headphone outputs.
      When all the way to the left, only the cue channel will be heard. When all the way to the right,
      only the program mix will be heard.
12.   Cue Split: When this switch is in the On position, the headphone audio will be “split” such that
      the cue channel are summed to mono and sent to the left headphone channel while the
      program mix is summed to mono and sent to the right channel. When the switch is in the Off
      position, the cue channel and program mix will be “blended” together. In both cases, use the
      Cue Mix knob to control the blend of the two signals.
13.   Cue Level: Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the cue channel.
14.   Headphone Outputs (1/4”, 1/8” / 6.35 mm, 3.5 mm, TRS): Connect your 1/4” or 1/8” (6.35 mm
      or 3.5 mm) headphones to this output for cueing and mix monitoring.


8
Rear Panel

       1    2       4       6   7       8
                        5                                                                  12     13
                                                 9    10
                                                                               11
                3       3

1.    Mic Inputs 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Connect microphones or line-level devices to these
      mono inputs. Their mono audio signals are split and routed directly to the stereo program mix
      and cue channel. If you prefer a stereo line input, the Aux In may be used.

2.    Aux In (RCA): Connect these inputs to an external line-level audio source. Remember to set the
      Mic 2/AUX switch to Aux to play its audio signal.
3.    Line/Phono Selectors: Set this switch to the appropriate position, depending on the device
      connected to the Phono/Line Ins of the corresponding deck. If you are using phono-level
      turntables, set this switch to Phono to provide the additional amplification needed for phono-
      level signals. If you are using a line-level device, such as a line-level turntable, CD player or
      sampler, set this switch to Line.
4.    Deck Phono/Line In (RCA): Connect these inputs to an external audio source or to a turntable,
      CD player, or other line-level device. Remember to set the corresponding Phono/Line selector
      to the appropriate position and to set the deck source knob for that deck to Phono/Line to
      play its audio signal on that deck.

5.    Phono Ground: If you are using phono-level turntables with a grounding wire, connect the
      grounding wire to this terminal. If you experience a low “hum” or “buzz”, this could mean that
      your turntables are not grounded.
      Note: Some turntables have a grounding wire built into the RCA connection and, therefore,
      nothing needs to be connected to the grounding terminal.

6.    Master Out (RCA): Connect these outputs to another mixer, recording device, etc. The
      program mix will be sent to these outputs.

7.    Main Out (XLR): Connect these outputs to loudspeakers or an amplifier system. Use the Main
      knob on the top panel to control the volume level.
8.    Booth Out (XLR): Connect these outputs to booth monitors or a booth amplifier system. Use
      the Booth knob on the top panel to control the volume level.
9.    USB Ports (USB Type-B): Use USB cables to connect these USB ports to available USB ports
      on your computer. These connections send and receive audio and MIDI control information to
      and from the computer.
      Note: Make sure you have downloaded and installed the Rane Control Panel from rane.com.
10.   Motor Torque: Flip this switch to adjust the torque of the platters. At the high setting, the
      platters will have the heavier, stronger feel of “modern” turntables. At the lower setting, they are
      lighter and more graceful—the feel of a “classic” turntable.

11.   Cooling Fan: Keep the area in front of this vent clear from obstructions. The fan behind the
      vent cools the ONE, preventing overheating.

12.   Power Input: While ONE is powered off, connect the included power cable to this input and
      then to a power outlet.

13.   Power Button: Use this button to power ONE on or off. Power on ONE only after you have
      connected all of your input devices and before you power on your amplifiers and loudspeakers.
      Power off your amplifiers and loudspeakers before powering off ONE.




                                                                                                        9
Operation

Pad Modes

This chapter describes the different pad modes. Each
deck has eight pads, which are always in one of
these modes, and each deck’s pads can be in a
different mode. Press one of the Pad Mode buttons
to enter the corresponding pad mode on that deck.
                                                              1          2            3           4


Hot Cue
                                                              5          6            7           8
In Hot Cue Mode, each pad assigns a hot cue point
or returns the track to that hot cue point.
To enter Hot Cue Mode, press Hot Cue.
To assign a hot cue point, press an unlit Pad at the desired point in your track. The pad will light
up when it is assigned (with the corresponding color, if available).
To jump to a hot cue point, press a lit Pad.
To delete an assigned hot cue point, press Shift and the corresponding pad.


Pitch Play                                                                   Up
In Pitch Play Mode, each pad plays the track from
a hot cue point at a different transposition              +4           +5        +6        +7
(adjustable by semitones). The Serato Pitch ‘n         semitones    semitones semitones semitones
Time DJ Expansion Pack (sold separately) must be
installed to use this mode. See Hot Cue to learn
how to assign hot cue points.                               0
                                                                      +1           +2        +3
                                                        (original
                                                                    semitone    semitones semitones
To enter Pitch Play Mode, press Hot Cue a                pitch)
second time.
To select which hot cue point to use, press                              Middle
Shift and a dimly lit Pad.
To select the range of transpositions the pads              0
                                                                      +1           +2        +3
will use, use the Parameter / buttons (see the        (original
                                                                    semitone    semitones semitones
                                                         pitch)
diagrams here).
To adjust the key of the current track down or
up, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons,            -4           -3        -2             -1
respectively.                                          semitones    semitones semitones      semitone

To play the track from the hot cue point, press a
lit Pad. Each pad corresponds to a specific
transposition (by semitones), depending on the                            Down
current range of transposition (see the diagrams
here). The pad with no transposition (the original                                                0
                                                          -3           -2            -1
pitch) will be lit white.                                                                     (original
                                                       semitones    semitones     semitone
                                                                                               pitch)


                                                          -7           -6        -5             -4
                                                       semitones    semitones semitones      semitones




10
Saved Loop
In Saved Loop Mode, each pad triggers a loop previously saved in your software.
To enter Saved Loop Mode, press Saved Loop.
To play a loop, press a lit Pad. Each deck’s eight pads will correspond to Saved Loops 1–8 in your
software, and the color of each pad will correspond to the color assigned to each loop in your
software.

Roll
In Roll Mode, each pad triggers a momentary loop roll. Releasing the pad stops the loop roll and
resumes normal playback where the playhead would be if you had not triggered the loop roll (i.e., as
if the track had been playing forward the whole time).
Note: Disable Show Beat Jump Controls in the Serato Setup menu to access 8 loop rolls at once.
You can also view and edit the set loop sizes in the software.
To enter Roll Mode, press Roll.
To trigger a loop roll, press and hold a Pad.
To change which eight lengths for loop rolls are shown (in the software), press either of the
Parameter / buttons. The pad layout will shift to match it.
To shift the loop roll backward or forward, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons, respectively.

Auto Loop                                                                Auto Loop Sizes
In Auto Loop Mode, each pad triggers or releases an
auto-loop of a different length.
                                                             1/4 Beat    1/2 Beat     1 Beat     2 Beats
To enter Auto Loop Mode, press Roll a second time.

Sampler
In Sampler Mode, each pad triggers a sample, which you       4 Beats     8 Beats    16 Beats    32 Beats
can assign in the software.
To enter Sample Mode, press Sample.

Scratch Bank
In Scratch Bank Mode, each pad loads a song to the selected deck. You can assign the song and
set the starting point in the software. This is useful for preparing and performing with song samples
for scratching.
To enter Scratch Bank Mode, press Sample a second time.

Slicer
Important: Your track must have a set beatgrid for this mode to work.
In Slicer Mode, the eight pads represent eight sequential beats—“slices”—in the beatgrid. The
currently playing slice is represented by the currently lit pad; the light will “move through the pads”
as it progresses through each eight-slice phrase. You can press a pad to play that slice. When you
release the pad, the track will resume normal playback from where it would have been if you had
never pressed it (i.e., as if the track had been playing forward the whole time).
To enter Slicer Mode, press Slicer. The deck will exit Slicer Mode if you load another track to the
deck or enable Grid Edit Mode.
To play a slice, press the corresponding Pad.
To decrease or increase the quantize size, press the Parameter / buttons.
To decrease or increase the size of the slices, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons.

Slicer Loop
Press Slicer a second time to enter Slicer Loop mode. The pads behave identically to the pads in
Slicer Mode, except the eight-Slice phrase will loop rather than moving forward continuously through
the track.


                                                                                                    11
Guía del usuario (Español)
Introducción
Gracias por comprar el ONE. En Rane, el rendimiento y la confiabilidad significan tanto para
nosotros como para usted. Por eso es que diseñamos nuestros equipos con una sola cosa en
mente—hacer que pueda tocar su mejor interpretación.


Contenido de la caja

ONE
Cable de alimentación
Cable USB
Tarjeta de descarga de software
Guía del usuario
Manual sobre la seguridad y garantía



Soporte

Para obtener la información más reciente acerca de este producto (documentación,
especificaciones técnicas, requisitos de sistema, información de compatibilidad, etc.) y
registrarlo, visite rane.com.
Para obtener soporte adicional del producto, visite rane.com/support.




12
Instalación

1. Ensamble del sistema del plato

1. Retire la base del ONE del embalaje. Retire el conjunto del plato del
   embalaje (debajo del ONE). Coloque el ONE sobre una superficie plana y
   estable para su ensamble y operación.
2. Coloque los platos en cada bandeja de la base del ONE alineando los
   pernos de la parte inferior del plato con los orificios del motor del ONE.
   Presiónelo firmemente. Asegúrese de que gire uniformemente y que no se
   tambalee en exceso.
3. Coloque la alfombrilla de fieltro sobre el plato. Luego coloque el disco de
   control sobre el husillo (con el adaptador de liberación rápida en la parte
   superior). Para bloquear el disco de control al husillo, inmovilice la
   parte superior del husillo mientras gira el disco hasta escuchar un clic.
   El mismo se bloquea cuando la ranura del husillo se alinea de forma
   directamente opuesta al botón del lado del adaptador de liberación
   rápida.




2. ¡Conecte y sea el DJ!

1. Asegúrese de haber descargado e instalado la última versión del software.
2. Coloque el ONE sobre una superficie plana y estable.
3. Con la alimentación eléctrica desconectada, enchufe el cable al ONE primero y a continuación a
   la toma de corriente.
4. Encienda el ONE utilizando el interruptor de encendido.
5. Utilice un cable USB (incluido) para conectar este puerto USB a un puerto USB disponible en su
   ordenador o en un concentrador USB alimentado conectado al ordenador.
6. ¡Abra Serato DJ Pro y a tocar!
    Para obtener más información sobre cómo utilizar el Serato DJ Pro con el ONE, visite
    support.serato.com.

Ejemplo
                                Giradiscos

                                                                        Computadora



       Micrófono



   Altavoces activos                                                                  Toma de
                                                                                      corriente




                                                          Monitores de cabina

Los elementos que no se enumeran en Introducción > Contenido de la caja se venden por separado.


                                                                                                  13
Características

Panel superior


           18                                        17           2        1        1         2
                             20
           19                                             23      3            7              3
                             21                                                8
                                                          24      4                           4
                                                                         9              10
                                                          25      5                11         5
                             22                                   6            12             6

                                                                         13             13

                                  28                       26       15         14            15
      29                                        27
      30        31                              39
                     34 35 36 37 38
                                                40
           32                33
                                                           28                 16
                                              41 42


1.   Fuente de la bandeja: Ajuste esta perilla a la fuente de audio deseada de este canal: USB A o
     B (una pista reproduciéndose en esa capa en el software, o Line (un dispositivo conectado la
     entrada fonográfica/línea de la bandeja Deck Phono/Line en el panel trasero).
     Nota: Si elige Line, mueva los interruptores selectores Phono/Line del panel trasero a la
     posición que corresponda.
     Nota: Los controles de una bandeja enviarán la información de MIDI solamente cuando su
     selector de fuente se ajuste a USB A o B.
     Nota: Si está utilizando DVS con ONE, conecte sus giradiscos a la entrada fonográfica, pero
     coloque el selector de fuente de la bandeja en USB A o B, según la cual esté conectado su
     ordenador.
2.   Nivel de bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el pre-fader y el nivel de audio del
     preecualizador del canal correspondiente. El medidor junto a esta perilla indica el nivel de
     volumen de la señal (redúzcalo si comienza a "recortarse" y llega a la parte roja del medidor).
3.   Ecualizador de agudos de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las frecuencias altas
     (agudos).
4.   Ecualizador de medios de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las frecuencias de los
     rangos intermedios.
5.   Ecualizador de graves de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las frecuencias bajas
     (graves).
     Nota: Todos los controles del ecualizador son de atenuación completa ("full-kill").
6.   LP/HP de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el filtro aplicado a la bandeja. Gire esta
     perilla en sentido antihorario para aplicar un filtro pasabajos. Gire esta perilla en sentido horario
     para aplicar un filtro pasaaltos. Déjela en la posición central ("12:00") para desactivar los filtros.


14
7.    Main: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de la mezcla de programa. El medidor
      junto a esta perilla indica el nivel de volumen de la mezcla de programa.
8.    Booth: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de las salidas Booth Out.
9.    Profundidad: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la mezcla "con-sin efectos" del Flex FX en esa
      bandeja.
10.   Beat: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la división de tiempo de los efectos seleccionados.
11.   Tap: Pulse este botón varias veces al ritmo del tempo deseado para definir manualmente los
      BPM para los efectos de beat-tempo, por canal.
12.   FX 1–6: Pulse uno de estos botones para activar o desactivar el efecto de software
      correspondiente que se muestra en el FX 1 y FX 2 del software Serato. Al pulsar los botones se
      activará un efecto por vez y al mantener pulsados los botones se activarán múltiples efectos a
      la vez.
13.   Conmutador de efectos: Coloque este interruptor conmutador en la posición más alejada de
      usted para activar los efectos de software—el conmutador quedará trabado en esa posición.
      Mueva el interruptor de regreso a la posición central para desactivar los efectos.
      Mueva este conmutador hacia la posición más cercana a usted y manténgalo ahí para activar
      los efectos de software momentáneamente, y suéltelo para desactivarlos—el conmutador
      regresará a la posición central.
14.   Cue de bandeja: Pulse este botón para enviar la señal de nivel pre-fader de esta bandeja al
      canal de cue para monitorización. Cuando está pulsado, el botón se enciende. Para poner
      múltiples canales en cue simultáneamente, pulse los botones Deck Cue de ambas bandejas.
15.   Fader de bandeja: Mueva este fader para ajustar el nivel de volumen de la bandeja
      correspondiente.
16.   Crossfader: Mueva este crossfader para mezclar entre las bandejas.
17.   Búsqueda: La longitud de esta tira representa la longitud de la totalidad de la pista. Coloque
      su dedo en un punto de este sensor para saltar a ese punto en la pista. Los LED que se
      encuentran arriba de la tira indica la ubicación aproximada del cabezal de reproducción en la
      pista.
18.   Scroll/Load / Instant Doubles: Gire esta perilla para recorrer las listas y púlsela para
      seleccionar un elemento o cargar la pista actualmente seleccionada en la bandeja.
      Pulse esta perilla dos veces rápidamente para cargar la misma pista en ambas bandejas
      ("dobles instantáneos").
19.   Back / Load Prep: Pulse este botón para visualizar la pantalla anterior en el software.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para cargar la pista actualmente seleccionada en la
      caja de preparación.
20.   Plato de transmisión directa de alto par de rotación: Un potente motor gira este plato de
      aluminio con puntos de posición de velocidad. Utilice el interruptor Motor Torque en el panel
      trasero para ajustar el torque de los platos
      Nota: El plato no debe ser mantenido en una posición por períodos prolongados mientras se
      esté accionando su rotación.
21.   Disco de control con alfombrilla de fieltro: Este disco de 18,2 cm (7,2 pulg.) de tamaño
      completo controla el cabezal de reproducción de audio de su software de DJ. Coloque la
      alfombrilla de fieltro debajo del disco de control (también se puede usar una alfombrilla
      diferente, si se prefiere).
      Nota: El usuario puede reemplazar el disco de control fijando el adaptador de liberación
      rápida a su propio disco modificado. El disco de reemplazo debe tener tres orificios de 6 mm y
      debe usarse el disco incluido como referencia.




                                                                                                  15
22.   Adaptador de liberación rápida: Sujeta el disco de control al plato. Viene sujetado a la parte
      superior del disco de control. Para retirar el disco de control o la alfombrilla de fieltro del
      plato, mantenga presionado el botón que se encuentra al costado del adaptador de
      liberación rápida mientras levanta el disco del husillo. Después de bloquear el disco
      nuevamente al husillo, inmovilice la parte superior del husillo mientras gira el disco lentamente
      hasta escuchar un clic. El mismo se bloquea cuando la ranura del husillo se alinea de forma
      directamente opuesta al botón del lado del adaptador de liberación rápida.
23.   Stop Time: Controla la desaceleración con la que el plato se detiene ("tiempo de frenado").
24.   Slip / Motor Off: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar el modo de resbalamiento. En
      modo de resbalamiento, puede saltar a puntos de cue rápido, disparar rotaciones de bucles o
      usar los platos, mientras la línea de tiempo de la pista continúa. En otras palabras, cuando
      detenga la acción, se reanuda la reproducción normal de la pista desde donde habría estado si
      nunca hubiera hecho nada (es decir, como si la pista hubiera estado reproduciéndose en
      avance todo el tiempo).
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para activar o desactivar el motor del plato
      correspondiente. Esto no afectará la reproducción de la pista.
25.   Censor / Reverse: Mantenga pulsado este botón para activar el censor, el cual invierte
      momentáneamente la reproducción de la pista. Suelte el botón para reanudar la reproducción
      normal desde donde lo haría si nunca se hubiera activado la función Censor (es decir, si la
      pista se hubiera estado reproduciendo hacia adelante todo el tiempo).
      Pulse Shift y pulse este botón para activar el censor, el cual invierte momentáneamente la
      reproducción de la pista. Pulse el botón nuevamente para reanudar la reproducción normal
      desde donde se haya detenido el cabezal de reproducción de audio.
26.   Fader de tono: Mueva este fader para ajustar la velocidad (tono) de la pista. Puede ajustar el
      rango completo con los botones Pitch Range (rango de tono).
27.   Rango de tono / Keylock: Pulse uno de estos botones para ajustar el rango del fader de pitch
      a ±8%, ±16% y ±50%.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego pulse este botón para activar o desactivar el bloqueo de
      tonalidad: el tono del tema quedará fijo en la posición en la que esté el fader de tono cuando
      se active el bloqueo de tonalidad. Esta función permite cambiar la velocidad del tema sin
      cambiar la tonalidad.
28.   Inflexión de tono –/+: Mantenga pulsado uno de estos botones para reducir o aumentar
      (respectivamente) la velocidad de la pista momentáneamente.
29.   Shift: Mantenga pulsado este botón para acceder a las funciones secundarias de otros
      controles en ONE.
30.   Cue / Anterior: Cuando la bandeja se ponen pausa, se puede definir un punto de cue
      temporario moviendo el plato para ubicar el cabezal de reproducción en la posición deseada y
      luego pulsando el botón Cue.
      Durante la reproducción, puede pulsar el botón Cue para que la pista vuelva a este punto de
      cue temporal. (Si no estableció un punto de cue temporal, volverá al principio de la pista.)
      Si la bandeja está en pausa, puede mantener pulsado el botón Cue para reproducir la pista
      desde el punto de cue temporal. Al soltar el botón Cue, la pista vuelve al punto de cue
      temporal y se pone en pausa. Para continuar la reproducción sin volver al punto de cue
      temporal, mantenga pulsado el botón Cue, después mantenga pulsado el botón Play
      (reproducir) y luego suelte ambos botones.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego pulse este botón para que la pista "tartamudee" volviendo al
      comienzo de la pista y reiniciando la reproducción.
31.   Sync / Sync Off: Pulse este botón para hacer coincidir automáticamente el tempo de la
      bandeja correspondiente con el tempo y la fase de la bandeja opuesta. Mantenga pulsado Shift
      y pulse este botón para desactivar la sincronización.
32.   Start/Stop: Pulse este botón para iniciar o detener el plato. El LED que rodea a este botón se
      atenuará cuando la unidad esté encendida y no se esté reproduciendo ninguna pista, brillará
      cuando se esté reproduciendo una pista y parpadeará de color rojo cuando la pista se acerque
      a su fin.

16
33.   Pads de actuaciones en vivo: Estos pads tienen distintas funciones en cada bandeja en
      función del modo de pad activo.
      Nota: Consulte Funcionamiento > Modos de pad para aprender a utilizar los pads en cada
      modo, como se describe a continuación.
34.   Hot Cue / Pitch Play: Pulse este botón para entrar al modo Hot Cue. Pulse el botón una
      segunda vez para entrar al modo de reproducción de tono.
      Nota: El plugin Pitch N Time de Serato (se vende por separado) es necesario para poder usar
      el modo de reproducción de tono.
35.   Saved Loop: Pulse este botón para entrar al modo bucles guardados.
36.   Roll / Auto Loop: Pulse este botón para entrar al modo redoble. Púlselo una segunda vez para
      entrar al modo bucle automático.
37.   Sampler: Pulse este botón para entrar al modo muestreador. Pulse el botón una segunda vez
      para entrar al modo de banco de rayado. En este modo, podrá asignar canciones a cada pad
      en el software y luego tocar el pad para cargar rápidamente en la bandeja la canción desde el
      punto inicial especificado. Esto resulta de gran utilidad para preparar y actuar con muestras de
      canciones para rayar.
38.   Slicer / Slicer Loop: Pulse este botón para entrar al modo cortador. Pulse el botón una
      segunda vez para entrar al modo bucle del cortador.
39.   Parameter /: Utilice estos botones para las diversas funciones en cada modo de pad.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y utilice estos botones para acceder a los parámetros secundarios.
40.   Loop On/Off / Reloop: Pulse este botón para crear un bucle automático con la longitud
      definida en el software. Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego pulse el botón para saltar al último
      bucle reproducido y activarlo inmediatamente.
41.   Loop In / x1/2: Pulse este botón para crear un punto de inicio de bucle en la posición actual.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para dividir a la mitad la duración de la pista actual.
42.   Loop Out / x2: Pulse este botón para crear un punto de salida de bucle en la posición actual.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para duplicar la duración de la pista actual.


Panel frontal

          2              5                   8             9             11        13

      1        3     4       6           7       7                            12        14
                                                               10

1.    Mic 1 – Off/On: Cuando se ajusta a Off (apagado), la entrada Mic 1 se desactiva. Cuando se
      ajusta a On (activado), la entrada Mic 1 del panel trasero se activa y su señal de audio se
      direcciona directamente hacia la mezcla de programa y la mezcla de cue.
2.    Mic 1 Level: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la ganancia de la entrada Mic 1.
3.    Mic 1 Tone: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el equilibrio entre las frecuencias bajas (graves) y
      altas (agudos) de la señal de audio proveniente de la entrada Mic 1.
4.    Mic 2 – Aux/Off/Mic 2: Cuando se ajusta a Aux, la entrada Aux del panel trasera se activa.
      Cuando se ajusta a Off, ambas entradas Aux y Mic 2 se desactivan. Cuando se ajusta a Mic
      2, la entrada Mic 2 del panel trasero se activa y su señal de audio se direcciona directamente
      hacia la mezcla de programa y la mezcla de cue. Al activarse, ambas señales de audio se
      direccionan directamente hacia la mezcla de programa y la mezcla de cue.
5.    Mic 2 / Aux Level: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la ganancia de la entrada Mic 2 o AUX.
6.    Mic 2 / Aux Tone: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el equilibrio entre las frecuencias bajas (graves)
      y altas (agudos) de la señal de audio proveniente de la entrada Mic 2 o AUX.
7.    Deck Reverse: Ajuste este interruptor a On para invertir la dirección de los faders de bandeja.
      Ajústelo a Off para utilizar la dirección convencional del fader.

                                                                                                       17
8.    Deck Contour: Permite ajustar la pendiente de la curva del fader de bandeja. Gire la perilla a la
      izquierda para una fusión suave (mezcla) o a la derecha para un corte abrupto (rayado). La
      posición central es un ajuste típico para actuaciones en clubes.
9.    Crossfader Contour: Permite ajustar la pendiente de la curva del crossfader. Gire la perilla a la
      izquierda para una fusión suave (mezcla) o a la derecha para un corte abrupto (rayado). La
      posición central es un ajuste típico para actuaciones en clubes.
10.   Crossfader Reverse: Ajuste este interruptor a On para invertir la dirección del crossfader.
      Ajústelo a Off para utilizar la dirección convencional del fader.
11.   Cue Mix: Gírela para mezclar el canal de cue y la mezcla del programa en las salidas de
      auriculares. Cuando se gira totalmente a la izquierda, sólo se oye el canal de cue. Cuando se
      gira totalmente a la derecha, se oye sólo la mezcla del programa.
12.   Cue Split: Cuando este interruptor está la posición On (Activado), se “divide” el audio de los
      auriculares de modo que el canal de cue se suma a mono y se envía al canal del auricular
      izquierdo mientras que la mezcla del programa se suma a mono y se envía al canal derecho.
      Cuando este interruptor está la posición Off (Desactivado), el canal de cue y la mezcla del
      programa se “combinan”. En ambos casos, use la perilla Cue Mix para controlar la mezcla de
      las dos señales.
13.   Cue Level: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el nivel de volumen del canal de cue.
14.   Salidas para auriculares (1/4 pulg., 1/8 pulg. / 6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS): Conecte sus
      auriculares de 1/4 o 1/8 pulg. (6,35 o 3,5 mm) a esta salida para búsqueda del punto inicial
      (cueing) y monitoreo de la mezcla.



Panel trasero

       1    2       4       6   7      8
                        5                                                               12     13
                                                9    10
                                                                              11
                3       3

1.    Entradas Mic 1–2 (XLR / 1/4 pulg. / 6,35 mm, TS): Conecte micrófonos o dispositivos de nivel
      de línea a estas entradas mono. Sus señales de audio mono se dividen y encaminan
      directamente a la mezcla de programa estéreo y al canal de cue. Si prefiere una entrada de
      línea estéreo, puede utilizarse la entrada Aux.
2.    Entrada auxiliar (RCA): Conecte estas entradas a una fuente de audio de nivel de línea
      externa. Recuerde colocar el interruptor Mic 2/AUX en la posición Aux para reproducir su
      señal de audio.
3.    Selector Phono/Line: Ajuste este interruptor a la posición adecuada, en función del
      dispositivo conectado a las entradas Phono/Line de la bandeja correspondiente. Si utiliza
      giradiscos de nivel fonográfico, ajuste este interruptor a Phono para proporcionar la
      amplificación adicional necesaria para las señales de este nivel. Si está utilizando un
      dispositivo de nivel de línea, como un giradiscos de nivel de línea, reproductor de CD o
      muestreador, ajuste este interruptor a Line.
4.    Entrada Phono/Line de la bandeja (RCA): Conecte estas entradas a una fuente de audio
      externa o a un giradiscos, reproductor de CD u otro dispositivo de nivel de línea. Recuerde
      ajustar el selector Phono/Line correspondiente a la posición adecuada y ajustar la perilla de la
      fuente de esa bandeja a Phono/Line para reproducir su señal de audio en dicha bandeja.
5.    Phono Ground: Si está utilizando giradiscos de nivel fonográfico con cable de conexión a
      tierra, conecte dicho cable a este terminale. Si se experimenta un zumbido grave, puede
      significar que sus giradiscos no están conectados a tierra.
      Nota: Algunos giradiscos tienen el cable de conexión a tierra incorporado a la conexión RCA y,
      por lo tanto, no es necesario conectar nada al terminal de tierra.



18
6.    Salida Master (RCA): Conecte estas salidas a otro mezclador, dispositivo de grabación, etc. La
      mezcla de programa se enviará a estas salidas.
7.    Salida Main (XLR): Conecte estas salidas a un sistema de altavoces o amplificador. Utilice la
      perilla Main (Principal) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel de volumen.
8.    Salida Booth (XLR): Conecte estas salidas a un sistema de monitores de cabina o amplificador
      de cabina. Utilice la perilla Booth (Cabina) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel
      de volumen.
9.    Puertos USB (USB tipo B): Utilice unos cables USB para conectar estos puertos USB a
      puertos USB disponibles en su ordenador. Estas conexiones envían y reciben audio e
      información de controles MIDI desde y hacia el ordenador.
      Nota: Asegúrese de haber descargado e instalado el panel de control de Rane desde
      rane.com.
10.   Torque del motor: Accione este interruptor para ajustar el torque del plato. En el ajuste High
      (alto), el plato tiene la sensación más pesada y fuerte de los giradiscos “modernos.” En el
      ajuste Low (bajo), son más livianos y suaves—la sensación de un giradiscos “clásico.”
11.   Ventilador de enfriamiento: Mantenga el área frente a esta ventilación libre de obstáculos. El
      ventilador que está detrás de la ventilación enfría el ONE, evitando el recalentamiento.
12.   Entrada de alimentación: Con el ONE apagado, conecte el cable de alimentación incluido a
      esta entrada y, a continuación, en una toma de corriente.
13.   Interruptor de encendido: Utilice este interruptor para encender y apagar el ONE. Encienda el
      ONE después de haber conectado todos sus dispositivos de entrada y antes de encender sus
      amplificadores y altavoces. Apague sus amplificadores y altavoces antes de apagar el ONE.



Funcionamiento

Modos de pads

Este capítulo describe los distintos modos de pads.
Cada bandeja tiene ocho pads, los cuales siempre
están en uno de estos modos, y los pads de cada
bandeja pueden estar en un modo diferente. Pulse
uno de los botones de modo de pads para entrar al
modo de pad correspondiente en esa bandeja.                    1          2          3           4


Hot Cue
                                                               5          6          7           8
En el modo de cue, cada pad asigna un punto de cue
rápido o hace que la pista vuelva a ese punto de cue
rápido.
Para entrar al modo de cue, pulse Hot Cue.
Para asignar un punto de cue rápido, pulse un pad apagado en el punto deseado de su pista. El
pad se iluminará cuando se lo asigne (con el color correspondiente, si está disponible).
Para saltar a un punto de cue rápido, pulse un pad iluminado.
Para borrar un punto de cue rápido asignado, pulse Shift y el pad correspondiente.



Reproducción de tonos
En el modo de reproducción de tonos, cada pad reproduce la pista desde un punto de cue rápido
en una transposición diferente (ajustable por semitonos). El paquete de expansión para DJ Serato
Pitch ‘n Time (se vende por separado) debe estar instalado para poder utilizar este modo. Consulte
Hot Cue para aprender cómo asignar puntos de cue rápidos.


                                                                                                     19
                                                                         Arriba
Para entrar al modo de reproducción de tonos,
pulse Hot Cue una segunda vez.                           +4         +5         +6          +7
Para seleccionar el punto de cue rápido que           semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tonos
desea utilizar, pulse Shift y un pad tenuemente
iluminado.
Para seleccionar el rango de transposiciones               0
                                                                      +1          +2          +3
                                                        (tono
que utilizará el pad, use los botones Parameter                    semitono    semi-tonos semi-tonos
                                                       original)
/ (consulte los diagramas aquí detallados).
Para ajustar el tono de la pista actual hacia                            Medio
arriba o hacia abajo, pulse Shift y los botones
Parameter / respectivamente.                             0
                                                                      +1          +2          +3
Para reproducir la pista desde el punto de cue          (tono
                                                                   semi-tono   semi-tonos semi-tonos
                                                       original)
rápido, pulse un pad iluminado. Cada pad
corresponde a una transposición específica (por
semitonos), en función del rango de transposición
                                                         -4         -3          -2        -1
actual (consulte los diagramas aquí detallados). El
                                                      semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tono
pad sin transposición (el tono original) estará
iluminado en blanco.
                                                                         Abajo

                                                                                                0
                                                         -3         -2            -1
Bucles guardados                                                                             (tono
                                                      semi-tonos semi-tonos    semi-tono
                                                                                            original)
En el modo de bucle guardado, cada pad dispara
o libera un bucle automático de diferente longitud.
Para entrar al modo de bucle guardado, pulse             -7         -6          -5         -4
                                                      semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tonos semi-tonos
Saved Loop.
Para reproducir un bucle, pulse un pad
iluminado. Los ocho pads de cada bandeja se
corresponderán con los bucles guardados 1–8 en
su software y el color de cada pad se
corresponderá con el color asignado a cada bucle
en su software.


Redoble
En el modo de redoble, cada pad dispara un redoble de bucle momentáneo. Al soltar el pad, se
detiene el redoble del bucle y se retoma la reproducción normal donde se encontraría el cabezal de
reproducción si no se hubiese disparado el redoble del bucle (es decir, como si la pista se hubiese
estado reproduciendo en avance todo el tiempo).
Nota: Desactive Show Beat Jump Controls (Mostrar controles de salteo de beats) en el menú
Setup de Serato para acceder a 8 bucles enrollados a la vez. También puede ver y editar los
tamaños de bucles configurados en el software.
Para entrar al modo de redoble, pulse Roll.
Para disparar un redoble de bucle, mantenga pulsado un pad.
Para cambiar cuáles son las ocho longitudes de bucles con retorno que se muestran (en el
software), pulse cualquiera de los botones Parameter /. La disposición de los pads cambiará
para que coincida.
Para desplazar el bucle con retorno hacia atrás o hacia adelante, pulse Shift y los botones
Parameter /, respectivamente.




20
Bucle automático                                              Tamaños de bucle automático
En el modo de bucle automático, cada pad dispara o
libera un bucle automático de diferente longitud.
                                                          1/8 Pulso   1/4 Pulso   1/2 Pulso     1 Pulso
Para entrar al modo de bucle automático, pulse Roll
una segunda vez.


Muestreador                                               2 Pulsos    4 Pulsos    8 Pulsos     16 Pulsos

En el modo Muestreador, cada pad dispara una muestra,
que puede asignar en el software.


Banco de rayado
En el modo banco de rayado, cada pad carga una canción en la bandeja seleccionada. Puede
asignar una canción y definir su punto inicial en el software. Esto resulta de gran utilidad para
preparar y actuar con muestras de canciones para rayar.
Para entrar al modo de banco de rayado, pulse Sample una segunda vez.


Cortador
Importante: Su pista debe tener una grilla de beats establecida para que este modo funcione.
En el modo de cortador, los 8 pads representan 8 pulsos secuenciales—“cortes”—de la grilla de
beats. El pad iluminado representa el corte que se está reproduciendo en ese momento. La luz
"recorre los pads" a medida que progresa a lo largo de cada una de las frases de ocho cortes.
Puede pulsar un pad para reproducir ese corte. Cuando suelte el pad, se reanuda la reproducción
normal de la pista desde donde habría estado si nunca lo hubiera presionado (es decir, como si la
pista hubiera estado reproduciéndose en avance todo el tiempo).
Para entrar al modo de cortador, pulse Slicer. La bandeja saldrá del modo de cortador si carga
otra pista en la bandeja o activa el modo de edición de la grilla.
Para reproducir un corte, pulse el pad correspondiente.
Para aumentar o reducir el tamaño de cuantificación, pulse los botones Parameter /.
Para aumentar o reducir el tamaño de los cortes, pulse Shift y los botones Parameter /.


Bucle del cortador
Pulse Slicer una segunda vez para entrar al modo cortador de bucles. Los pads se comportan de
manera idéntica al modo cortador, excepto que la frase de ocho cortes realiza un bucle en vez de
avanzar continuamente por la pista.




                                                                                                   21
Guide d’utilisation (Français)
Présentation
Merci d’avoir fait l’acquisition du ONE. Chez Rane, la performance et la fiabilité sont aussi
importantes pour nous qu’ils le sont pour vous. C’est pourquoi nous concevons nos produits
avec une seule chose en tête — faire de votre performance la meilleure qui soit.


Contenu de la boîte

ONE
Câble d’alimentation
Câble USB
Carte de téléchargement de logiciel
Guide d’utilisation
Consignes de sécurité et informations concernant la garantie



Assistance

Pour les toutes dernières informations concernant la documentation, les spécifications
techniques, la configuration requise, la compatibilité et l’enregistrement du produit, veuillez
visiter rane.com.
Pour de l’assistance supplémentaire, veuillez visiter rane.com/support.




22
Démarrage

1. Assemblez le système de plateaux

1. Retirez ONE de son emballage. Retirez les plateaux de l’emballage (se
   trouvant sous ONE). Placez ONE sur une surface plane et stable afin de
   procéder à son assemblage et à son utilisation.
2. Placez un plateau sur chaque module de la base ONE en alignant les
   broches au bas du plateau avec les trous du moteur. Appuyez fermement.
   Vérifiez qu'ils tournent uniformément et qu’ils ne vacillent pas
   excessivement, puis placez le tapis sur le plateau.
3. Placez ensuite le disque de contrôle au-dessus de l'axe (avec
   l'adaptateur à dégagement rapide vers le haut). Pour verrouiller le
   disque de contrôle sur l’axe, pincez le haut de l’axe tout en faisant tourner
   le disque lentement jusqu'à ce que vous entendiez un déclic. Il se verrouille
   lorsque la rainure de l’axe s’aligne face à la touche sur le côté de
   l’adaptateur à dégagement rapide.




2. Faites tous les branchements puis commencez à faire du DJing !

1. Veuillez vous assurer d’avoir téléchargé et installé la dernière version du logiciel audionumérique.
2. Placez ONE sur une surface plane et stable.
3. Alors que la touche d’alimentation est hors tension, reliez le câble d'alimentation d’abord au
   ONE, puis à la prise secteur.
4. Appuyez sur la touche d'alimentation pour mettre ONE sous tension.
5. Utilisez le câble USB standard fourni pour relier le port USB de l'appareil à un port USB sur
   votre ordinateur ou sur un concentrateur USB alimenté connecté à votre ordinateur.
6. Lancez le logiciel Serato DJ Pro, puis laissez libre cours à votre imagination !
    Pour plus d'informations sur l'utilisation de Serato DJ Pro avec ONE, veuillez visiter
    support.serato.com.

Exemple
                               Platine disque

                                                                             Ordinateur



        Microphone


      Haut-parleurs                                                                          Prise
        actives                                                                             secteur




                                                             Enceintes cabine

Les éléments qui ne figurent pas dans Présentation > Contenu de la boîte sont vendus séparément.



                                                                                                      23
Caractéristiques

Panneau supérieur


           18                                       17          2        1        1         2
                             20
           19                                            23     3            7              3
                             21                                              8
                                                         24     4                           4
                                                                       9              10
                                                         25     5                11         5
                             22                                 6            12             6

                                                                       13             13

                                  28                      26      15         14            15
      29                                       27
      30        31                             39
                     34 35 36 37 38
                                               40
           32                33
                                                          28                16
                                             41 42


1.   Sélecteur de source : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner la source audio pour le canal : USB A
     ou B (une piste qui joue sur cette couche dans le logiciel) ou Line (un appareil branché à l’entrée
     Phono/Line sur le panneau arrière).
     Remarque : Si vous sélectionnez Line, réglez le sélecteur Phono/Line du panneau arrière sur
     Line.
     Remarque : Les commandes d’un module transmettent des données MIDI seulement lorsque
     son sélecteur de source est réglé sur USB A ou B.
     Remarque : Si vous utilisez DVS avec ONE, connectez vos platines à l'entrée phono, mais
     réglez le sélecteur de source sur USB A ou B, celle à laquelle votre ordinateur est connecté.
2.   Deck Level : Ce bouton permet de définir le niveau de pré-égalisation et de pré-atténuation du
     module. Le vumètre à côté du bouton indique le niveau du signal. Diminuez le réglage s’il
     atteint la partie rouge (écrêtage).
3.   Deck EQ High : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des hautes fréquences du module.
4.   Deck EQ Mid : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des moyennes fréquences du module.
5.   Deck EQ Low : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des basses fréquences du module.
     Remarque : Toutes les commandes d'égalisation offrent la suppression complète des fréquences
     définies.
6.   Deck LP/HP : Ce bouton permet de régler le filtre appliqué au module. Tourner le bouton dans
     le sens antihoraire permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-bas. Tourner le bouton dans le sens des
     aiguilles d'une montre permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-haut. Régler ce bouton sur la position
     centrale (12 h) permet de désactiver les filtres.
7.   Main : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume du mix du programme. Les vumètres à côté du
     bouton indiquent le niveau du mix du programme.


24
8.    Booth : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume des sorties Booth.
9.    Depth : Ce bouton permet de régler l'équilibre traité/non traité de l’effet interne (Flex FX) sur ce
      module.
10.   Beat : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner la division temporelle pour les effets sélectionnés.
11.   Tap : Appuyer sur cette touche à plusieurs reprises au rythme désiré permet de régler
      manuellement le BPM du tempo des effets du module.
12.   FX 1–6 : Ces touches permettent d’activer et de désactiver l'effet logiciel correspondant affiché
      en tant que FX 1 et FX 2 dans le logiciel Serato. Appuyer sur une touche permet d’activer un
      effet à la fois. Maintenir plusieurs touches enfoncées permet d’activer plusieurs effets à la fois.
13.   Interrupteur d’effets : Pousser cet interrupteur vers le haut permet d’activer les effets
      logiciels ; l’interrupteur demeure verrouillé dans cette position. Pousser l’interrupteur vers la
      position centrale permet de désactiver les effets.
      Pousser et maintenir cet interrupteur vers le bas permet d’activer les effets logiciels
      momentanément, et le relâcher permet de les désactiver ; l’interrupteur retourne à la position
      centrale.
14.   Cue : Cette touche permet d’acheminer le signal pré-atténuation du module au canal de pré-
      écoute. La touche s’allume lorsque cette fonction est activée. Pour pré-écouter simultanément
      plusieurs canaux, appuyez sur les touches Cue des deux modules.
15.   Curseur : Ce curseur permet d'ajuster le volume du module correspondant.
16.   Crossfader : Déplacez ce curseur afin de mélanger les signaux des modules.
17.   Search : La longueur de la bande représente la durée de la piste. Placer le doigt sur n’importe
      quel endroit sur la bande permet de sauter sur ce point dans la piste. Les DEL au-dessus de la
      bande indiquent l'emplacement approximatif du curseur de lecture dans la piste.
18.   Scroll/Load/Instant Doubles : Tourner ce bouton permet de parcourir les listes et l’enfoncer
      permet de sélectionner un des items ou de charger la piste sélectionnée sur le module.
      Appuyer deux fois rapidement permet de charger la même piste sur les deux modules (« double
      instantané »).
19.   Back/Load Prep : Cette touche permet de revenir à la fenêtre précédente dans le logiciel.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée et appuyer sur cette touche permet de charger la piste
      sélectionnée dans le Prepare Crate.
20.   Plateau avec moteur à couple élevé à entraînement direct : Un moteur puissant fait tourner
      le plateau en aluminium avec des points de position de vitesse. Le sélecteur Motor Torque sur
      le panneau arrière permet de régler le niveau de couple des plateaux.
      Remarque : Le plateau ne doit pas être retenu pour de longues périodes lorsqu’il est alimenté
      par le moteur.
21.   Disque de contrôle avec feutrine : Ce disque de 18,2 cm permet de contrôler le curseur de
      lecture dans votre logiciel audionumérique. Placez la feutrine fournie sous le disque de
      contrôle, ou encore, utilisez-en une autre de votre choix.
      Remarque : Le disque de contrôle peut être remplacé par l'utilisateur en fixant l'adaptateur à
      dégagement rapide à votre propre disque modifié. Le disque de remplacement doit avoir trois
      trous de 6 mm, et le disque fourni doit être utilisé comme référence.
22.   Adaptateur à dégagement rapide : Cet adaptateur permet de verrouiller le disque de
      contrôle au plateau. Il est préfixé sur le dessus du disque de contrôle. Pour retirer le disque
      de contrôle ou la feutrine du plateau, maintenez la touche située sur le côté de l'adaptateur à
      dégagement rapide enfoncée tout en soulevant le disque pour le dégager de l'axe. Après
      avoir replacé le disque de contrôle sur l’axe, pincez le haut de l’axe tout en faisant tourner le
      disque lentement jusqu'à ce que vous entendiez un déclic. Il se verrouille lorsque la rainure de
      l’axe s’aligne face à la touche sur le côté de l’adaptateur à dégagement rapide.
23.   Stop Time : Contrôle la vitesse à laquelle le plateau s’arrête complètement (« temps de
      décélération »).

                                                                                                       25
24.   Slip/Motor Off : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver le mode Slip. En Mode Slip,
      vous pouvez sauter à des points de repère rapides, déclencher des boucles momentanées, ou
      utiliser les plateaux, alors que la chronologie de la piste se poursuit. En d’autres mots, lorsque
      vous cessez l'action en cours, la piste reprend la lecture normale à partir de l’emplacement où
      elle serait si vous n’aviez pas touché à l’une des commandes (c.-à-d., comme si la lecture avait
      suivi son cours).
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette touche permet d'activer ou de
      désactiver le moteur du plateau correspondant. Cela n'affecte pas la lecture de la piste.
25.   Censor/Reverse : Maintenir cette touche enfoncée permet d’activer la fonction Censor, qui
      inverse temporairement la lecture de la piste. Relâcher la touche permet de relancer la lecture
      normale de la piste à partir de l’emplacement où elle serait si vous n’aviez pas activé la fonction
      Censor (c.-à-d., comme si la lecture n’avait jamais été interrompue).
      Appuyer sur la touche Shift et sur cette touche permet d’activer la fonction Reverse, qui inversera
      la lecture de la piste. Appuyer de nouveau sur la touche permet de reprendre la lecture normale
      d'où la tête de lecture s’est arrêtée.
26.   Curseur de hauteur tonale : Ce curseur permet de régler la vitesse (hauteur tonale) de la piste.
      Vous pouvez ajuster sa plage en utilisant la touche Range/Keylock.
27.   Range/Keylock : Cette touche permet d’ajuster la plage du curseur de hauteur tonale à
      ±8%, ±16% et ±50%.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette touche permet d’activer et de
      désactiver la fonction de verrouillage tonale : La hauteur tonale de la chanson sera verrouillée à
      la position à laquelle était réglé le curseur lorsque le verrouillage a été activé. Cette fonction
      permet de modifier la vitesse de la chanson sans changer la hauteur tonale.
28.   Pitch Bend -/+ : Maintenir une de ces touches enfoncée permet de diminuer ou d’augmenter
      temporairement la vitesse de la piste.
29.   Shift : Maintenir cette touche enfoncée permet d’accéder aux fonctions secondaires des autres
      commandes du ONE.
30.   Cue/Précédent : Lorsque la lecture du module est interrompue, il est possible de programmer
      un point de repère temporaire en déplaçant le plateau afin de placer le curseur audio à
      l'endroit désiré et en appuyant sur la touche Cue.
      Pendant la lecture, appuyer sur la touche Cue permet de revenir à ce point de repère
      temporaire. (Si aucun point de repère temporaire n’est programmé, la lecture reprendra au
      début de la piste.)
      Si la lecture du module est interrompue, maintenir la touche Cue enfoncée permet de
      reprendre la lecture à partir du point de repère temporaire. Relâcher la touche Cue permet de
      retourner sur le point de repère temporaire et d’interrompre la lecture. Maintenir la touche Cue
      et la touche de lecture enfoncée, puis relâcher les deux touches permet de reprendre la
      lecture sans revenir au point de repère temporaire.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette touche permet d’ajouter un effet de
      « bégaiement » en revenant au début de la piste et en la relançant.
31.   Sync/Sync Off : Cette touche permet de synchroniser automatiquement le tempo du module
      au tempo et phase de l’autre module. Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée et appuyer sur cette
      touche permet de désactiver la synchronisation.
32.   Start/Stop : Cette touche permet de lancer et d’arrêter le plateau. L’intensité de la DEL autour
      de cette touche sera faible lorsque le plateau est activé et qu’aucune piste ne joue, élevée
      lorsqu’une piste joue, et clignotera rouge lorsque la piste touche à sa fin.
33.   Pads : Ces pads ont différentes fonctions sur chaque module selon le mode de fonctionnement
      sélectionné.
      Remarque : Veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Modes de fonctionnement des
      pads afin d’apprendre à utiliser les pads selon le mode.



26
34.   Hot Cue / Pitch Play : Cette touche permet d’accéder au mode Hot Cue. Appuyer une
      deuxième fois sur la touche permet de passer en mode Pitch Play.
      Remarque : Le plug-in Serato Pitch N Time (vendu séparément) est requis pour utiliser le mode
      Pitch Play.
35.   Saved Loop : Cette touche permet de passer en mode Saved Loop.
36.   Roll / Auto Loop : Cette touche permet d’accéder au mode Roll. Appuyer une deuxième fois
      sur la touche permet de passer en mode Auto Loop.
37.   Sampler : Cette touche permet d’accéder au mode Sampler. Appuyer une deuxième fois sur la
      touche permet de passer en mode Scratch Bank. En mode Scratch Bank, vous pouvez
      assigner des chansons à chaque pad du logiciel, puis appuyer sur le pad pour charger
      rapidement la chanson à partir du point de départ spécifié sur le module. Ceci est utile pour
      préparer et faire jouer des échantillons de chanson lors de l’utilisation de la fonction scratch.
38.   Slicer / Slicer Loop : Cette touche permet d’accéder au mode Slicer. Appuyer une deuxième
      fois sur la touche permet de passer en mode Slicer Loop.
39.   Parameter / : Ces touches permettent d’utiliser les différentes fonctions selon le mode de
      fonctionnement des pads sélectionné. Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis utiliser ces
      touches permet d’accéder aux paramètres secondaires.
40.   Loop On/Off/Reloop : Cette touche permet de programmer une boucle automatique dont la
      durée est définie dans le logiciel. Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette
      touche permet de revenir à la dernière boucle lue et de la relancer.
41.   Loop In/x1/2 : Cette touche permet de programmer un point d’entrée de boucle à partir de la
      position actuelle dans la piste.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette touche permet de couper de moitié
      la durée de la boucle sélectionnée.
42.   Loop Out/x2 : Cette touche permet de programmer un point de sortie de boucle à partir de la
      position actuelle dans la piste.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur cette touche permet de doubler la durée
      de la boucle sélectionnée.


Panneau avant

           2             5                    8            9             11        13

       1        3    4       6            7       7                           12        14
                                                               10

1.    Mic 1 – Off/On : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur Off, l’entrée Mic 1 est désactivée. Lorsque ce
      sélecteur est réglé sur On, l’entrée Mic 1 sur le panneau arrière est activée et le signal audio est
      acheminé directement au mix du programme et au mix de pré-écoute.
2.    Mic 1 Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le gain de l’entrée Mic 1.
3.    Mic 1 Tone : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster l’équilibre entre les basses et les hautes fréquences
      du signal provenant de l'entrée Mic 1.
4.    Mic 2 – Aux/Off/Mic 2 : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur Aux, l'entrée auxiliaire sur le
      panneau arrière est activée. Lorsqu’il est réglé sur Off, l’entrée auxiliaire et l’entrée Mic 2 sont
      désactivées. Lorsqu’il est réglé sur Mic 2, l’entrée Mic 2 sur le panneau arrière est activée et le
      signal audio est acheminé directement au mix du programme et au mix de pré-écoute. Le
      signal audio de ces deux entrées est acheminé directement au mix du programme et au mix de
      pré-écoute.
5.    Mic 2/Aux Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le gain de l’entrée Mic 2 et de l’entrée
      auxiliaire.
6.    Mic 2/Aux Tone : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster l’équilibre entre les basses et les hautes
      fréquences du signal provenant de l'entrée Mic 2 ou de l’entrée auxiliaire.


                                                                                                       27
7.    Deck Reverse : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur On, la direction du curseur du module est
      inversée. Lorsqu’il est réglé sur Off, la direction des curseurs est normale.
8.    Deck Contour : Ce bouton permet de régler l'intensité du fondu du curseur du module.
      Tourner dans le sens antihoraire permet d’obtenir un fondu progressif (mixage) et tourner dans
      le sens horaire permet d’obtenir une coupure nette (scratch). La position centrale est
      typiquement utilisée dans les clubs.
9.    Crossfader Contour : Ce bouton permet de régler l'intensité du fondu du crossfader. Tourner
      dans le sens antihoraire permet d’obtenir un fondu progressif (mixage) et tourner dans le sens
      horaire permet d’obtenir une coupure nette (scratch). La position centrale est typiquement
      utilisée dans les clubs.
10.   Crossfader Reverse : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur On, la direction du crossfader est
      inversée. Lorsqu’il est réglé sur Off, la direction du crossfader est normale.
11.   Cue Mix : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le mix entre le canal de pré-écoute et le mix du
      programme des sorties casque. Lorsqu'il est réglé complètement à gauche, seul le canal de
      pré-écoute est entendu. Lorsqu'il est réglé complètement à droite, seul le mix du programme
      est entendu.
12.   Cue Split : Lorsque cette touche est enfoncée, l'audio du casque est partagé afin que tous les
      canaux envoyés au canal de pré-écoute soient combinés en mono et transmis au canal gauche
      et que le mix du programme soit combiné en mono et transmis au canal droit. Lorsque cette
      touche est relâchée, l’audio du canal de pré-écoute et du mix du programme sont combinés.
      Dans les deux cas, le bouton Cue Mix permet de contrôler le mélange des deux signaux.
13.   Cue Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume du canal de pré-écoute.
14.   Sorties casque (6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS) : Cette sortie permet de brancher un casque d’écoute
      6,35 mm ou 3,5 mm pour la pré-écoute et le calage.


Panneau arrière

       1     2       4       6   7       8
                         5                                                                   12      13
                                                  9    10
                                                                                  11
                 3       3

1.    Entrées Mic 1–2 (XLR/6,35 mm, TRS) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher un microphone ou
      un appareil à niveau ligne. Les signaux audio mono de ces entrées sont séparés puis
      acheminés directement au mix du programme stéréo et au canal de pré-écoute. Pour une
      entrée ligne stéréo, l'entrée Session doit être utilisée.
2.    Entrées auxiliaires (RCA) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher des sources audio externes à
      niveau ligne. N'oubliez pas de régler le sélecteur Mic 2/AUX sur Aux afin de pouvoir entendre
      le signal audio.
3.    Sélecteur Phono/Line : Ce sélecteur permet de sélectionner le niveau du signal approprié selon
      l’appareil branché aux entrées Phono/Line du module correspondant. Si vous utilisez des
      platines vinyle phono, réglez le sélecteur sur Phono afin d’ajouter plus d’amplification aux
      signaux phono. Pour brancher un appareil à niveau de ligne, comme une platine vinyle à niveau
      ligne, un lecteur CD ou un échantillonneur, réglez-le sur Line.
4.    Entrée Phono/Line (RCA) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher des sources audio externes
      comme une platine vinyle, un lecteur CD ou un autre appareil à niveau ligne. Le sélecteur
      Phono/Line du module doit être réglé en fonction de l’appareil branché et le sélecteur de
      source doit être réglé sur Phono/Line afin que le signal du module puisse être joué.
5.    Phono Ground : Si vous utilisez des platines vinyle phono avec fil de mise à la terre, veillez à
      relier le fil à cette borne. S’il y a un ronflement ou du bruit, il se pourrait que vos platines vinyle
      ne soient pas mises à la terre.
      Remarque : Certaines platines vinyle sont dotées d'un fil de mise à la terre intégré à la
      connexion RCA, et donc, n'ont pas besoin d’être reliées à la borne de mise à la terre.

28
6.    Sorties Master (RCA) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher une autre console de mixage, un
      appareil d’enregistrement, etc. Le mix du programme sera transmis à ces sorties.
7.    Sorties Main (XLR) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes ou un système
      d’amplification. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est commandé par le bouton Main du
      panneau supérieur.
8.    Sorties Booth (XLR) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes cabine ou un système
      d’amplification. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est commandé par le bouton Booth du
      panneau supérieur.
9.    Ports USB (USB de type-B) : Ces ports permettent de relier des ordinateurs en utilisant des
      câbles USB. Ces connexions permettent de transmettre et de recevoir de l’audio et des
      données de commande depuis et vers un ordinateur.
      Remarque : Veuillez vous assurer d’avoir téléchargé et installé le logiciel Rane Control Panel à
      partir du site rane.com.
10.   Motor Torque : Ce commutateur permet d’ajuster le niveau de couple de plateau. Un réglage
      plus élevé donne l’impression que le plateau sont plus lourds, semblable aux tourne-disques «
      modernes ». Un réglage plus bas donne l’impression que le plateau sont plus légers et plus
      gracieux, semblable aux tourne-disques « classiques ».
11.   Orifice de ventilation : Assurez vous de maintenir cet orifice non obstrué en tout temps. Le
      ventilateur se trouvant derrière permet de refroidir l'ONE afin qu’il ne surchauffe pas.
12.   Entrée d'alimentation : Alors que l'ONE est hors tension, utilisez le câble d’alimentation fourni
      pour brancher l’entrée d’alimentation à une prise secteur.
13.   Interrupteur d'alimentation : Cet interrupteur permet de mettre l'ONE sous et hors tension.
      Veillez à mettre l'ONE sous tension uniquement après avoir raccordé tous les appareils d'entrée
      et avant de mettre les amplificateurs et enceintes sous tension. Veillez à mettre les amplificateurs
      et les enceintes hors tension avant de mettre l'ONE hors tension.



Fonctionnement

Modes de fonctionnement des pads

Cette section explique les différents modes de
fonctionnement des pads. Chaque module dispose
de huit pads qui peuvent être en mode différent.
Appuyez sur une des touches des modes de
fonctionnement des pads afin de faire basculer les
pads du module au mode correspondant.                           1           2           3           4

Mode de programmation de points de
repère rapide                                                   5           6           7           8
En mode de programmation de points de repère
rapide, chaque pad peut assigner un point de repère
rapide ou retourner la piste à ce point de repère.
Pour accéder au mode de programmation de points de repère rapide, appuyez sur la touche
Hot Cue.
Pour assigner un point de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad éteint lorsque le curseur atteint
l’endroit désiré sur la piste. Le pad s'allume lorsqu’il est assigné à point de repère rapide (avec la
couleur correspondante, lorsque disponible).
Pour sauter à un point de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad allumé.
Pour supprimer un point de repère rapide, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant
sur le pad correspondant.



                                                                                                        29
                                                                      Plage vers le haut
Pitch Play
En mode Pitch Play, chaque pad joue la piste à
partir d'un point de repère rapide avec une                +4            +5          +6        +7
                                                        demi-tons     demi-tons   demi-tons demi-tons
transposition différente (réglable en demi-tons). Le
logiciel Serato Pitch ‘n Time DJ Expansion Pack
(vendu séparément) doit être installé afin d’utiliser        0
ce mode. Veuillez consulter la section Mode de           (Hauteur       +1           +2        +3
programmation de points de repère rapide afin             tonale      demi-ton    demi-tons demi-tons
d’en savoir plus.                                        originale)
Pour accéder au mode Pitch Play, appuyez une
deuxième fois sur la touche Hot Cue.                                    Plage moyenne

Pour sélectionner un point de repère rapide,                 0
appuyez sur la touche Shift et un sur pad allumé        (Hauteur       +1           +2        +3
à faible intensité.                                       tonale      demi-ton    demi-tons demi-tons
                                                         originale)
Pour sélectionner la plage des transpositions
utilisée par les pads, utilisez les touches Parameter
/ (consultez les diagrammes ci-contre).                  -4            -3          -2          -1
Pour augmenter ou baisser la tonalité de la piste       demi-tons     demi-tons   demi-tons   demi-ton
sélectionnée, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
et appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /.
                                                                       Plage vers le bas
Pour faire la lecture de la piste à partir d’un point
de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad allumé.                                                      0
Chaque pad correspond à une transposition                  -3            -2         -1        (Hauteur
spécifique (en demi-tons), selon la plage de            demi-tons     demi-tons   demi-ton     tonale
transposition sélectionnée (consultez les diagrammes                                          originale)
ci-contre). Le pad sans transposition (hauteur tonale
originale) sera allumé et blanc.                           -7            -6          -5          -4
                                                        demi-tons     demi-tons   demi-tons   demi-tons
Saved Loop
En mode Saved Loop, chaque pad déclenche une boucle précédemment sauvegardée dans le
logiciel.
Pour accéder au mode bouclage automatique, appuyez sur la touche Saved Loop.
Pour déclencher une boucle, appuyez sur un pad allumé. Les huit pads de chaque module
correspondent aux boucles sauvegardées 1 à 8 du logiciel, et la couleur de chaque pad correspond
à la couleur attribuée à chaque boucle du logiciel.

Roulement de boucle
En mode roulement de boucle, chaque pad déclenche un roulement de boucle momentanée.
Lorsque le pad est relâché, le roulement de boucle est désactivé et la lecture normale de la piste
reprend à partir de l’emplacement où elle serait si vous n’aviez pas activé le roulement de boucle (c.-
à-d., comme si la lecture n’avait jamais été interrompue).
Remarque : Veuillez désactiver l’option Show Beat Jump Controls dans le menu Setup de Serato
afin d’afficher les 8 roulements de boucle en même temps. Vous pouvez également afficher et
modifier la durée des roulements de boucle dans le logiciel.
Pour accéder au mode de roulement de boucle, appuyez sur la touche Roll.
Pour déclencher un roulement de boucle, maintenez un des pads enfoncé.
Pour modifier quelles huit durées de boucles automatiques sont affichées (dans le logiciel),
appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /. La disposition des pads changera en conséquence.
Pour décaler le roulement de boucle vers l’arrière ou l’avant, maintenez la touche Shift
enfoncée et appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /.



30
Bouclage automatique                                              Tailles de boucle automatique
En mode bouclage automatique, chaque pad active ou
désactive une boucle automatique d'une durée                     1/8         1/4         1/2          1
différente.                                                    temps       temps       temps       temps
Pour accéder au mode bouclage automatique,
appuyez une deuxième fois sur la touche Roll.
                                                                 2           4           8            16
                                                               temps       temps       temps        temps
Échantillonneur
En mode échantillonneur, chaque pad déclenche un échantillon, que vous pouvez assigner
dans le logiciel.


Scratch Bank
En mode Scratch Bank, chaque pad charge une chanson sur le module sélectionné. Vous pouvez
assigner la chanson et définir le point de départ dans le logiciel. Ceci est utile pour préparer et faire
jouer des échantillons de chanson lors de l’utilisation de la fonction scratch.

Pour accéder au mode Scratch Bank, appuyez une deuxième fois sur la touche Sample.



Slicer
Important : Un Beatgrid pour la piste doit avoir été configuré afin que ce mode fonctionne.
En mode Slicer, les huit pads représentent huit battements séquentiels ou « tranches » dans le
Beatgrid. La tranche en cours de lecture est représentée par le pad qui est allumé ; la lumière
parcourra les pads au fur et à mesure que les huit tranches de la phase sont jouées. Vous pouvez
appuyer sur un pad pour faire jouer la tranche correspondante. Lorsque le pad est relâché, la lecture
normale de la piste est relancée à partir de l’emplacement où elle serait si vous ne l’aviez pas
enfoncé (c.-à-d., comme si la lecture n’avait jamais été interrompue).
Pour accéder au mode Slicer, appuyez sur la touche Slicer/Transport afin qu’elle devienne rouge. Le
module quitte le mode Slicer si vous chargez une autre piste au module ou activez le mode Grid Edit.
Pour activer une tranche, appuyez sur le pad correspondant.
Pour augmenter ou diminuer la taille de quantification, appuyez sur les touches Parameter /.
Pour augmenter ou de diminuer la durée des tranches, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis
appuyez sur les touches Parameter /.


Slicer Loop
Appuyez une deuxième fois sur la touche Slicer afin de passer en mode Slicer Loop. Les pads se
comportent de manière identique au mode Slicer, sauf que la phrase de huit tranches sera bouclée
au lieu d’avancer dans la piste.




                                                                                                      31
Guida per l’uso (Italiano)
Introduzione
Grazie per aver acquistato l’ONE. Per noi di Rane, prestazioni e affidabilità contano
moltissimo, proprio come per te. Ecco perché progettiamo i nostri dispositivi con un unico
obiettivo in mente: rendere le tue prestazioni le migliori possibili.


Contenuti della confezione

ONE
Cavo di alimentazione
Cavo USB
Scheda per il download del software
Guida per l’uso
Istruzioni di sicurezza e garanzia



Assistenza

Per le ultime informazioni in merito a questo prodotto (documentazione, specifiche tecniche,
requisiti di sistema, informazioni sulla compatibilità, ecc.) e per effettuarne la registrazione,
recarsi alla pagina rane.com.
Per ulteriore assistenza sul prodotto, recarsi alla pagina rane.com/support.




32
Configurazione

1. Montaggio del sistema del piatto

1. Estrarre la base del ONE dalla confezione. Estrarre il gruppo del piatto
   dalla confezione (sotto ONE). Collocare l’ONE su una superficie piana e
   stabile per il montaggio e l’uso.
2. Collocare i piatti su ciascun deck dell’ONE allineando i perni a livello della
   parte inferiore del piatto con i fori nel motore dell’ONE. Premerlo verso il
   basso con decisione. Assicurarsi che ruoti uniformemente e non oscilli
   eccessivamente.
3. Collocare il tappetino sul piatto. Quindi collocare il disco di controllo
   sull’asse centrale (con l’adattatore a sgancio rapido incluso in alto). Per
   fissare il disco di controllo all'asse, pizzicare la parte alta dell’asse
   ruotando lentamente il disco fino a sentire uno scatto. Si blocca quando il
   solco a livello dell’asse si allinea direttamente di fronte al pulsante sul lato
   dell’adattatore a sgancio rapido.




2. Collegare il tutto e iniziare a fare il DJ!

1. Assicurarsi di aver già scaricato e installato l'ultima versione del proprio software da DJ.
2. Collocare il ONE su una superficie uniforme e stabile.
3. Ad alimentazione spenta, collegare il cavo di alimentazione in dotazione innanzitutto all'ONE,
   quindi ad una presa elettrica.
4. Accendere il ONE servendosi del power switch.
5. servirsi di un cavo USB standard (in dotazione) per collegare la porta USB a una porta USB
   disponibile del computer o a un hub connesso al computer.
6. Aprire il Serato DJ Pro e via!
    Per maggiori informazioni su come utilizzare il Serato DJ Pro con il ONE, recarsi alla pagina
    support.serato.com.

Esempio
                                    Giradischi
                                                                              Computer




        Microfono



       Altoparlanti                                                                           Presa
                                                                                             elettrica




                                                              Monitor booth

Elementi non elencati sotto Introduzione > Contenuti della confezione sono venduti separatamente.


                                                                                                         33
Caratteristiche

Pannello superiore


           18                                        17          2        1        1         2
                             20
           19                                             23     3            7              3
                             21                                               8
                                                          24     4                           4
                                                                        9              10
                                                          25     5                11         5
                             22                                  6            12             6

                                                                        13             13

                                  28                       26     15          14            15
      29                                       27
      30        31                             39
                     34 35 36 37 38
                                               40
           32                33
                                                           28                16
                                             41 42


1.   Fonte del deck: impostare questa manopola sulla fonte audio desiderata per questo canale:
     USB A o B (una traccia che suona su quel livello nel software), o Linea (un dispositivo collegato
     all'ingresso Deck Phono/Linea a livello del pannello posteriore).
     Nota bene: se si seleziona Line, impostare i selettori Phono/Line sul pannello posteriore di
     conseguenza.
     Nota bene: i comandi del deck invieranno informazioni MIDI unicamente quando il selettore
     fonte del deck è impostato su USB A o B.
     Nota bene: se si utilizza il DVS con il ONE, collega il giradischi all’ingresso phono, ma
     impostare il selettore fonte del deck su USB A o B, a seconda di quale dei due è collegato al
     computer.
2.   Livello del deck: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume del segnale audio pre-fader,
     pre-EQ per il canale corrispondente. Il misuratore accanto a questa manopola indica il livello
     del volume del segnale (ridurlo se inizia a “saltare”, raggiungendo la parte rossa del
     misuratore).
3.   Deck EQ High: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze alte (treble).
4.   Deck EQ Mid: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze di gamma intermedia.
5.   Deck EQ Low: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze basse (bass).
     Nota bene: tutti i comandi EQ sono full-kill.
6.   Deck LP/HP: girare questa manopola per regolare il filtro applicato al deck. Girare la manopola
     in senso antiorario per applicare un filtro passa basso. Girare la manopola in senso orario per
     applicare un filtro passa alto. Impostarlo in posizione centrale (“12:00”) per disattivare i filtri.



34
7.    Main: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume di uscita del mix di programma. l
      misuratori accanto a questa manopola indicano il livello del volume del mix di programma.
8.    Booth: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume di uscita delle Uscite Booth.
9.    Depth: girare questa manopola per regolare il mix “wet-dry” del Flex FX su quel deck.
10.   Beat: girare questa manopola per impostare la divisione di tempo per gli effetti selezionati.
11.   Tap: premere questo tasto più volte al tempo desiderato per impostare manualmente il BPM
      per gli effetti beat-tempo per canale.
12.   FX 1–6: premere uno di questi tasti per attivare o disattivare l’effetto software corrispondente
      illustrato nell’FX 1 ed FX 2 del software Serato. La pressione dei tasti attiverà un effetto alla
      volta; tenendo premuti i tasti, invece, si attiveranno più effetti contemporaneamente.
13.   Comandi effetti: allontanare questo comando per attivare gli effetti software; il comando si
      bloccherà in quella posizione. Riportare il comando in posizione centrale per disattivare gli
      effetti.
      Tirare il comando verso di sé per attivare momentaneamente gli effetti software e rilasciare il
      comando per disattivare gli effetti; il comando tornerà in posizione centrale.
14.   Deck Cue (cue del deck): premere questo tasto per inviare il segnale pre-fader di questo deck
      al canale cue per il monitoraggio. Una volta attivato, il tasto sarà acceso. Per effettuare il cueing
      di più canali contemporaneamente, premere i tasti Deck Cue per entrambi i deck.
15.   Fader del deck: spostare questo fader per regolare il volume del deck corrispondente.
16.   Crossfader: muovere questo fader per mixare tra i due deck.
17.   Search: la lunghezza di questa fascia rappresenta la lunghezza dell’intera traccia. Puntare il
      dito in un punto lungo questo sensore per saltare a quel punto della traccia. I LED al di sopra
      della fascia indicano il punto approssimativo della testina di riproduzione lungo la traccia.
18.   Scroll/Load / Instant Doubles: girare questa manopola per navigare tra le liste e premerla per
      selezionare una voce o caricare la traccia attualmente selezionata sul deck.
      Premerla rapidamente due volte per caricare la stessa traccia su entrambi i deck (“raddoppio
      istantaneo”).
19.   Back/Load Prep: premere questo tasto per visualizzare la schermata precedente nel software.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per caricare la traccia selezionata sul Prepare
      Crate.
20.   Piatto ad alta coppia a trazione diretta: un motore potente fa girare questo piatto in alluminio
      con punti di posizionamento velocità. Servirsi dell’interruttore Motor Torque sul pannello
      posteriore per regolare la coppia dei piatti.
      Nota bene: il piatto stesso non dovrebbe essere mantenuto in posizione per periodi prolungati
      quando è alimentato per ruotare.
21.   Disco di controllo con tappetino: Questo disco da 18,2 cm (7,2”) controlla la testina di
      riproduzione audio nel software da DJ. Collocare il tappetino in dotazione sotto il disco di
      controllo (se si preferisce è possibile utilizzare un tappetino diverso).
      Nota bene: il disco di controllo può essere sostituito dall’utente fissando l’adattatore a
      sgancio rapido al suo disco modificato. Il disco sostitutivo deve avere fori da 6 mm e il disco
      in dotazione deve essere utilizzato come riferimento.
22.   Adattatore a sgancio rapido: fissa il disco di controllo al piatto. Viene fornito fissato alla
      parte superiore del disco di controllo. Per rimuovere il disco di controllo o il tappetino dal
      piatto, tenere premuto il tasto sul lato dell’adattatore a sgancio rapido sollevando il disco
      dall'asse. Dopo aver collocato nuovamente il disco sull'asse, pizzicare la parte alta dell’asse
      stesso ruotando lentamente il disco fino a sentire uno scatto. Si blocca quando il solco a livello
      dell’asse si allinea direttamente di fronte al pulsante sul lato dell’adattatore a sgancio rapido.
23.   Stop Time: controlla la velocità alla quale il piatto rallenta fino a giungere all'arresto completo
      ("tempo di frenata").


                                                                                                        35
24.   Slip / Motor Off: premere questo tasto per abilitare o disabilitare la modalità slip. In modalità
      slip si può saltare ai punti Hot Cue, attivare Loop roll o utilizzare i piatti, mentre la timeline della
      traccia procede. In altre parole, quando si interrompe l'azione verrà ripresa la normale
      riproduzione della traccia dal punto in cui si sarebbe trovata se non fosse mai stata premuta
      (ossia, come se la traccia avesse continuato a suonare).
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare il motore del piatto
      corrispondente. Ciò non influirà sulla riproduzione della traccia.
25.   Censor / Reverse: tenere premuto questo tasto per attivare Censor, invertendo
      temporaneamente la riproduzione della traccia. Rilasciare il tasto per riprendere la normale
      riproduzione dal punto in cui si sarebbe trovata se la funzione Censor non fosse mai stata
      attivata (ossia, come se la traccia avesse continuato a suonare).
      Premere Shift per attivare Reverse, invertendo la riproduzione della traccia. Premere
      nuovamente il tasto per riprendere la riproduzione normale da qualsiasi punto la testina si sia
      arrestata.
26.   Fader del pitch: muovere questo fader per regolare la velocità (pitch) della traccia. Si può
      regolare l'intero intervallo con i tasti Pitch Range.
27.   Pitch Range/Keylock: premere uno di questi tasti per regolare la gamma del fader del pitch a
      ±8%, ±16% e ±50%.
      Tenere premuto Shift, quindi premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare il blocco tonalità: la
      tonalità della canzone sarà bloccata in qualsiasi posizione si trovi il fader del pitch quando il
      blocco tonalità è attivo. Questa funzione consente di modificare la velocità della canzone senza
      cambiare la tonalità.
28.   Bend del pitch -/+: tenere premuto uno di questi tasti per ridurre o aumentare (rispettivamente)
      momentaneamente la velocità della traccia.
29.   Shift: tenere premuto questo pulsante per accedere alle funzioni secondarie di altri comandi
      dell’One.
30.   Cue/Previous: quando il deck è in pausa, si può impostare un punto cue temporaneo
      muovendo il piatto in modo da collocare la testina di riproduzione nel punto desiderato e
      quindi premendo il tasto cue.
      Durante la riproduzione, si può premere il tasto cue per far tornare la traccia a questo punto cue
      temporaneo (se non è stato impostato alcun punto cue temporaneo, tornerà all'inizio della traccia).
      Se il deck è in pausa, si può tenere premuto il tasto cue per riprodurre la traccia dal punto cue
      temporaneo. Lasciando la pressione, il tasto cue farà tornare la traccia al punto cue
      temporaneo e la riproduzione verrà interrotta. Per continuare la riproduzione senza tornare al
      punto cue temporaneo, tenere premuto il tasto cue, quindi premere e tenere premuto il tasto
      play e rilasciare entrambi i tasti.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riprodurre la traccia con un effetto "stutter"
      tornando all’inizio della traccia e riavviando la riproduzione.
31.   Sync/Sync Off: premere questo tasto per abbinare automaticamente il tempo del deck
      corrispondente con il tempo e la fase del deck opposto. Tenere premuto Shift e premere
      questo tasto per disattivare la funzione Sync.
32.   Start/Stop: premere questo tasto per avviare o fermare il piatto. Il LED attorno a questo tasto
      sarà soffuso quando l’alimentazione è accesa e non ci sono tracce in corso di riproduzione,
      luminoso quando una traccia viene riprodotta e rosso lampeggiante quando la riproduzione
      della traccia è vicina alla fine.
33.   Pad performance: questi pad hanno funzioni diverse su ciascun deck a seconda della
      modalità pad corrente.
      Nota bene: si veda Operazione > Modalità pad per scoprire come utilizzare i pad in ciascuna
      modalità descritta di seguito.
34.   Hot Cue / Pitch Play: premere questo tasto per entrare in modalità Hot Cue. Premere il tasto
      una seconda volta per entrare in modalità Pitch Play.
      Nota bene: il plugin Serato Pitch N Time (venduto separatamente) è necessario per utilizzare
      la modalità Pitch Play.
35.   Saved Loop: premere questo tasto per entrare in modalità Saved Loop (loop salvato).

36
36.   Roll / Auto Loop: premere questo tasto per entrare in modalità Roll. Premere il tasto una
      seconda volta per entrare in modalità Auto Loop.
37.   Sampler / Scratch Bank: premere questo tasto per entrare in modalità Sampler
      (campionatore). Premere il tasto una seconda volta per entrare in modalità Scratch Bank. In
      questa modalità è possibile assegnare canzoni a ciascun pad presente nel software e quindi
      toccare il pad per caricare rapidamente la canzone sul deck dal punto di inizio specificato.
      Questa funzione è utile per prepararsi ed esibirsi con lo scratch di campioni di canzoni.
38.   Slicer / Slicer Loop: premere questo tasto per entrare in modalità Slicer. Premere il tasto una
      seconda volta per entrare in modalità Slicer Loop.
39.   Parameter /: servirsi di questi tasti per varie funzioni in ciascuna modalità pad. Tenere
      premuto Shift e utilizzare questi tasti per accedere a parametri secondari.
40.   Loop On/Off / Reloop: premere questo tasto per creare un loop automatico con la lunghezza
      impostata nel software. Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per tornare all'ultimo loop
      riprodotto e attivarlo immediatamente.
41.   Loop In / x1/2: premere questo tasto per creare un punto di Loop In nel punto attuale.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per dimezzare la lunghezza del loop corrente.
42.   Loop Out / x2: premere questo tasto per creare un punto di Loop Out nel punto attuale.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per raddoppiare la lunghezza del loop corrente.



Pannello anteriore

          2             5                   8             9            11        13

      1       3     4       6           7       7                           12        14
                                                              10

1.    Mic 1 – Off/On: quando è impostato su Off, l'ingresso Mic 1 è disattivo. Quando è impostato
      su On, l'ingresso Mic 1 sul pannello posteriore è attivo, e il suo segnale audio viene
      convogliato direttamente al mix programma e cue mix.
2.    Mic 1 Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il guadagno dell’ingresso Mic 1.
3.    Mic 1 Tone: girare questa manopola per regolare l’equilibrio delle frequenze basse (bass) e alte
      (treble) del segnale audio proveniente dall’ingresso Mic 1.
4.    Mic 2 – Aux/Off/Mic 2: quando impostato su Aux, l’ingresso Aux In sul pannello posteriore è
      attivo. Quando è impostato su Off, l’ingresso Aux e l’ingresso Mic 2 Input sono entrambi
      disattivi. Quando è impostato su Mic 2, l'ingresso Mic 2 sul pannello posteriore è attivo, e il
      suo segnale audio viene convogliato direttamente al mix programma e al mix cue. Entrambi i
      segnali audio sono convogliati direttamente al mix programma e al mix cue quando attivi.
5.    Mic 2 / Aux Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il guadagno dell’ingresso Mic 2 o
      dell’ingresso AUX.
6.    Mic 2 / Aux Tone: girare questa manopola per regolare l’equilibrio delle frequenze basse (bass)
      e alte (treble) del segnale audio proveniente dall’ingresso Mic 2 o dell’ingresso AUX.
7.    Deck Reverse: impostare questo interruttore su On per invertire la direzione dei fader del deck.
      Impostarlo su Off per utilizzare la direzione convenzionale del fader.
8.    Deck Contour: regola la variazione della curva del fader del deck. Girare la manopola verso
      sinistra per una dissolvenza uniforme (mix) oppure verso destra per un taglio netto (scratch). La
      posizione centrale è un'impostazione tipica per esibizioni in discoteca.
9.    Crossfader Contour: regola la variazione della curva del crossfader. Girare la manopola verso
      sinistra per una dissolvenza uniforme (mix) oppure verso destra per un taglio netto (scratch). La
      posizione centrale è un'impostazione tipica per esibizioni in discoteca.


                                                                                                    37
10.   Crossfader Reverse: impostare questo interruttore su On per invertire la direzione del
      crossfader. Impostarlo su Off per utilizzare la direzione convenzionale del fader.
11.   Cue Mix: girare questo comando per mixare tra il canale cue e il mix di programma nelle uscite
      cuffie. Quando impostato all’estrema sinistra, si sentirà unicamente il canale cue. Quando
      impostato all’estrema destra, si udrà solo il mix programma.
12.   Cue Split: quando questo tasto è acceso (On), l’audio delle cuffie sarà “suddiviso” in modo che
      il canale cue venga sommato a mono e inviato al canale cuffie di sinistra, e che il mix di
      programma venga sommato a mono e inviato al canale destro. Quando il tasto è fioco (Off), il
      canale Cue e il mix di programma verranno “miscelati” insieme. In entrambi i casi, servirsi della
      manopola Cue Mix per regolare la miscela dei due segnali.
13.   Cue Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il livello del volume del canale cue.
14.   Uscite cuffie (1/4”, 1/8” / 6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS): collegare cuffie da 1/4” o 1/8” (6,5 mm o 3,5
      mm) a questa uscita per il monitoraggio del mix e il cueing.


Pannello posteriore

       1    2       4       6   7      8
                        5                                                                 12     13
                                                9    10
                                                                               11
                3       3
1.    Ingressi Mic 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6,35 mm, TRS): collegare microfoni o dispositivi a livello di linea a
      questi ingressi mono. I relativi segnali audio mono sono divisi e convogliati direttamente al mix
      programma stereo e al canale cue. Se si preferisce un ingresso di linea stereo, è possibile
      utilizzare l’Ingresso Aux.
2.    Ingresso Aux (RCA): collegare questi ingressi a una fonte audio esterna a livello di linea.
      Ricordarsi di impostare l’interruttore Mic 2/AUX su Aux per riprodurre il segnale audio.
3.    Selettore Phono/Line: impostare questo interruttore sulla posizione adeguata, a seconda del
      dispositivo collegato agli ingressi Phono/Line del deck corrispondente. Se si utilizzano giradischi
      a livello phono, impostare l’interruttore su Phono per garantire l’amplificazione aggiuntiva
      necessaria per i segnali a livello phono. Se si utilizza un dispositivo a livello di linea quale un
      giradischi a livello di linea, un lettore CD o un campionatore, impostare l’interruttore su Line.
4.    Ingressi Deck Phono/Line (RCA): collegare questi ingressi a una fonte audio esterna o a un
      giradischi, a un lettore CD o a un altro dispositivo a livello di linea. Ricordarsi di impostare il
      selettore Phono/Line corrispondente nella posizione adeguata e impostare la manopola deck
      source per quel deck su Phono/Line per riprodurre il relativo segnale audio su quel deck.
5.    Phono Ground: se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono dotati di cavo di messa a terra,
      collegare quest’ultimo a questo terminale. Se si verifica un “ronzio” o un “brusio” basso, ciò
      può significare che i giradischi non sono messi a terra.
      Nota bene: alcuni giradischi hanno il cavo di messa a terra incorporato nel collegamento RCA
      e, di conseguenza, non è necessario collegare nulla al terminale di messa a terra.
6.    Uscite Master (RCA): collegare queste uscite a un altro mixer, dispositivo di registrazione, ecc.
      Il mix di programma sarà inviato a queste uscite.
7.    Uscite Main (XLR): collegare queste uscite ad altoparlanti o a un impianto di amplificazione.
      Servirsi della manopola Main sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del volume.
8.    Uscite Booth (XLR): collegare queste uscite a monitor booth o a un impianto di amplificazione
      booth. Servirsi della manopola Booth sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del volume.
9.    Porte USB (USB Tipo B): servirsi di cavi USB per collegare queste porte USB ad una porta
      USB libera del computer. Questi collegamenti inviano e ricevono audio e informazioni di
      controllo MIDI da e verso il computer.
      Nota bene: assicurarsi di aver scaricato e installato il pannello di controllo Rane da rane.com.


38
10.   Coppia motore: girare questo interruttore per regolare la coppia del piatto. All’impostazione
      massima, il piatto avranno la sensazione più forte e pesante dei giradischi “moderni”. Impostato
      al minimo, saranno più leggeri e pieni di grazia: la sensazione di un giradischi “classico”.
11.   Ventola di raffreddamento: mantenere l’area di fronte a questa bocchetta libera da ostacoli.
      La ventola dietro la bocchetta raffredda il ONE, impedendone il surriscaldamento.
12.   Ingresso di alimentazione: quando il ONE è spento, collegare il cavo di alimentazione in
      dotazione a questo ingresso e quindi a una presa di alimentazione.
13.   Interruttore di alimentazione: servirsi di questo interruttore per accendere e spegnere il ONE.
      Accendere il ONE solo dopo aver collegato tutti i dispositivi di ingresso e prima di accendere
      amplificatori e casse. Spegnere amplificatori e casse prima di spegnere il ONE.


Operazione

Modalità Pad

Questo capitolo descrive le diverse modalità pad.
Ciascun deck presenta otto pad, che si trovano
sempre in una di queste modalità e i pad di ciascun
deck si possono trovare in una modalità diversa.
Premere uno dei tasti modalità pad per entrare nella
modalità pad corrispondente su quel deck.                      1           2            3          4


Hot Cue
                                                               5           6            7          8
In modalità Cue, ciascun pad assegna un punto hot
cue o fa tornare la traccia a quel punto hot cue.

Per entrare in modalità Cue, premere Hot Cue.
Per assegnare un punto hot cue, premere un pad spento nel punto desiderato della traccia.
Quando è assegnato, il pad si illumina (del colore corrispondente, se disponibile).

Per saltare a un punto hot cue, premere un pad illuminato.
Per cancellare un punto hot cue assegnato, premere Shift e il pad corrispondente.



Pitch Play                                                                     Su
In modalità Pitch Play, ciascun pad riproduce la
traccia da un punto hot cue ad una trasposizione           +4           +5            +6         +7
diversa (regolabile in semitoni). Per poter utilizzare   semitoni     semitoni      semitoni   semitoni
questa modalità, il pack di espansione DJ Serato
Pitch ‘n Time (venduto separatamente) deve
essere installato. Si veda Hot Cue per sapere                0
                                                                         +1           +2         +3
come si assegnano i punti hot cue.                         (pitch
                                                                      semitono      semitoni   semitoni
                                                         originale)
Per entrare in modalità Pitch Play, premere Hot
Cue una seconda volta.                                                     Centro
Per selezionare quale punto hot cue utilizzare,              0
premere Shift e un pad dalla luce smorzata.                              +1           +2         +3
                                                           (pitch
                                                                      semitono      semitoni   semitoni
                                                         originale)
Per selezionare l’intervallo di trasposizione che
utilizzeranno i pad, servirsi dei tasti Parameter
/ (vedi schemi qui di seguito).
                                                           -4           -3            -2          -1
                                                         semitoni     semitoni      semitoni   semitono


                                                                                                          39
                                                                                Giù
Per regolare la tonalità della traccia corrente in
alto o in basso, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter                                                      0
/, rispettivamente.                                       -3             -2            -1
                                                                                                      (pitch
                                                          semitoni       semitoni     semitone
                                                                                                    originale)
Per riprodurre la traccia dal punto hot cue,
premere un pad acceso. Ciascun pad corrisponde
a una trasposizione specifica (in semitoni), che
dipende dall’intervallo di trasposizione corrente (si       -7             -6            -5           -4
                                                          semitoni       semitoni      semitoni     semitoni
vedano gli schemi qui di seguito). Il pad privo di
trasposizione (il pitch originale) sarà illuminato di
bianco.



Saved Loop
In modalità Saved Loop, ciascun pad attiva un loop precedentemente salvato nel software.
Per entrare in modalità Saved Loop, premere Saved Loop.
Per riprodurre un loop, premere un pad illuminato. Gli otto pad di ciascun deck corrisponderanno
ai loop salvati 1-8 nel software e il colore di ciascun pad corrisponderà al colore assegnato a ciascun
loop nel software.



Roll
In modalità Roll, ciascun pad attiva un Loop Roll momentaneo. Rilasciando il pad si ferma il loop roll
e si riprende la riproduzione normale nel punto in cui la testina di riproduzione si troverebbe se non
fosse stato attivato il loop roll (ossia, se la traccia avesse continuato la sua riproduzione per tutto il
tempo).
Nota bene: disattivare Show Beat Jump Controls nel menu Serato Setup per accedere a 8 giri di
loop contemporaneamente. Si possono anche visualizzare e modificare le dimensioni del loop
impostate nel software.

Per entrare in modalità Roll, premere Roll.
Per attivare un loop roll, tenere premuto un pad.
Per modificare le otto lunghezze dei loop illustrate (nel software) premere uno dei tasti
Parameter /. Il layout dei pad cambierà di conseguenza.
Per spostare il loop in avanti o indietro, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter /, rispettivamente.



Auto Loop                                                            Lunghezze di loop automatico
In modalità Loop automatico, ciascun pad attiva o
rilascia un auto-Loop di una lunghezza diversa.
                                                               1/4 Beat      1/2 Beat      1 Beat        2 Beats
Per entrare in modalità Auto Loop, premere Roll una
seconda volta.

                                                               4 Beats       8 Beats      16 Beats      32 Beats




40
Sampler
In modalità campionatore, ogni pad innesca un campione, che è possibile assegnare nel software.



Scratch Bank
In modalità Scratch Bank, ciascun pad carica una canzone sul deck selezionato. È possibile
assegnare la canzone e impostare il punto d’inizio nel software. Questa funzione è utile per
prepararsi ed esibirsi con lo scratch di campioni di canzoni.
Per entrare in modalità Scratch Bank, premere Sample una seconda volta.



Slicer
Importante: la traccia deve avere una griglia del beat affinché questa modalità funzioni.
In modalità Slicer, gli otto pad rappresentano otto beat sequenziali, "slice", nella griglia del beat. Lo
slice che viene riprodotto è rappresentato dal pad acceso; la luce si "sposta tra i pad" man mano
che avanza attraverso ciascuna frase di otto slice. Si può premere un pad per riprodurre quello slice.
Quando si rilascia il pad verrà ripresa la normale riproduzione della traccia dal punto in cui si sarebbe
trovata se non fosse mai stata premuta (ossia, come se la traccia avesse continuato a suonare).

Per entrare in modalità Slicer, premere Slicer. Se si carica un’altra traccia sul deck o si abilita la
modalità Grid Edit, il deck uscirà dalla modalità Slicer.

Per riprodurre uno slice, premere il pad corrispondente.
Per ridurre o aumentare le dimensioni di quantizzazione, premere i tasti Parameter /.
Per ridurre o aumentare le dimensioni degli slice, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter /.



Slicer Loop
Premere Slicer una seconda volta per entrare in modalità Slicer Loop. i pad si comportano come i
pad nella modalità Slicer, tranne per il fatto che la frase da otto Slice effettuerà un loop anziché
avanzare in maniera continua lungo la traccia.




                                                                                                      41
Benutzerhandbuch (Deutsch)
Einführung
Vielen Dank für den Kauf des ONE. Bei Rane schätzen wir Leistung und Zuverlässigkeit -
genau wie Sie. Darum entwerfen wir unsere Geräte stets nur mit einem einzigen Ziel vor
Augen: Ihre Anwendung so gut wie möglich zu unterstützen.


Lieferumfang

ONE
Netzkabel
USB-Kabel
Software-Download-Karte
Benutzerhandbuch
Sicherheitshinweise und Garantieinformationen



Kundendienst

Für die neuesten Informationen zu diesem Produkt (Dokumentation, technische Daten,
Systemanforderungen, Informationen zur Kompatibilität etc.) und zur Produktregistrierung
besuchen Sie bitte: rane.com.
Für zusätzlichen Produkt-Support besuchen Sie rane.com/support.




42
Setup

1. Montieren Sie das Plattensystem

1. Entfernen Sie die Verpackung der ONE-Basis. Entfernen
   Sie die Plattenbaugruppen aus der Verpackung
   (unterhalb des ONE). Für Montage und Betrieb stellen
   Sie ONE am besten auf eine ebene, stabile Oberfläche.
2. Legen Sie die Plattenteller auf jedes Deck der ONE-
   Basis, indem Sie die Stifte im Boden der Plattenteller
   mit den Löchern im ONE-Motor ausrichten. Drücken Sie
   den Teller fest nach unten. Stellen Sie sicher, dass er
   sich gleichmäßig dreht und nicht übermäßig wackelt.

3. Legen Sie die Slipmat auf den Plattenteller. Bringen Sie dann die Control-Disc über die Spindel
   (mit dem angebrachten Schnellwechseladapter darüber). Um die Control-Disc an der Spindel
   zu fixieren, drücken Sie auf die Oberseite der Spindel, während Sie die Scheibe langsam drehen,
   bis Sie ein Klicken hören. Sie rastet ein, wenn die Nut in der Spindel direkt gegenüber der Taste
   an der Seite des Schnellwechseladapters ausgerichtet ist.


2. Schließen Sie die Geräte an und beginnen Sie zu mixen!

1. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass Sie die neueste Version Ihrer DJ-Software heruntergeladen und
   installiert haben.
2. Platzieren Sie ONE auf einer flachen, stabilen Oberfläche.
3. Stellen Sie sicher, dass das Gerät ausgeschaltet ist. Verbinden Sie zuerst das mitgelieferte
   Stromkabel mit dem ONE und stecken das Netzteil dann in eine Steckdose.
4. Schalten Sie ONE mit dem Netzschalter ein.
5. Verwenden Sie ein standardmäßiges USB-Kabel (im Lieferumfang enthalten), um den USB-
   Anschluss mit einem verfügbaren USB-Anschluss Ihres Computers oder einem an den
   Computer angeschlossenen Hub zu verbinden.
6. Öffnen Sie Serato DJ Pro und los geht's!
    Weitere Informationen zur Verwendung von Serato DJ Pro mit dem ONE finden Sie unter
    support.serato.com.

Beispiel
                                Plattenspieler

                                                                               Computer




        Mikrofon



      Lautsprecher                                                                          Steckdose




                                                              Booth-Monitoren


Teile, die nicht unter Einführung > Lieferumfang angegeben sind, sind separat erhältlich.



                                                                                                        43
Funktionen

Oberseite


           18                                       17         2       1         1         2
                             20
           19                                            23    3           7               3
                             21                                            8
                                                         24    4                           4
                                                                      9              10
                                                         25    5                11         5
                             22                                6            12             6

                                                                      13             13

                                  28                      26    15          14            15
      29                                       27
      30        31                             39
                     34 35 36 37 38
                                               40
           32                33
                                                          28               16
                                             41 42


1.   Deck-Quelle: Stellen Sie diesen Regler auf die gewünschte Audioquelle von diesem Kanal: USB A
     oder B (ein Track, der auf dieser Layer in der Software abgespielt wird) oder Line (ein Gerät, das
     mit Deck Phono/Line In auf der Rückseite verbunden ist).
     Hinweis: Wenn Sie Line auswählen, stellen Sie die Phono/Line-Wahlschalter auf der Rückseite
     entsprechend ein.
     Hinweis: Die Bedienelemente eines Decks senden MIDI-Informationen nur, wenn der Deck-
     Quellenwahlschalter auf USB A oder B gestellt ist.
     Hinweis: Wenn Sie DVS mit ONE verwenden, schließen Sie Ihre Plattenspieler an den Phono-
     Eingang an, stellen Sie den Deck-Quellen-Wahlschalter jedoch auf USB A oder B, je nachdem,
     wo Ihr Computer angeschlossen ist.
2.   Deck-Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den Pre-Fader, Pre-EQ-Audiopegel des
     entsprechenden Kanals einzustellen. Die Anzeige neben diesem Regler zeigt den Signalpegel
     an (reduzieren Sie ihn, wenn das Signal zu "clippen" beginnt und den roten Teil der Anzeige
     erreicht).
3.   Deck EQ High: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die hohen Frequenzen anzupassen.
4.   Deck EQ Mid: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Mittenfrequenzen einzustellen.
5.   Deck EQ Low: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die tiefen (Bass)-Frequenzen einzustellen.
     Hinweis: Alle EQ-Steuerelemente sind "full-kill".
6.   Deck LP/HP: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den Filter für das Deck einzustellen. Drehen Sie
     den Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Tiefpassfilter anzulegen. Drehen Sie den Regler
     im Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Hochpassfilter anzuwenden. Stellen Sie ihn auf die mittlere Position
     ("12:00") ein, um die Filter zu deaktivieren.


44
7.    Main: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Programm-Mix ein. Die Meter
      neben diesem Regler zeigt den Programm-Mix Signalpegel an.
8.    Booth: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Booth-Ausgänge ein.
9.    Depth: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den „wet/dry“-Mix der internen Flex FX auf diesem Deck
      einzustellen.
10.   Beat: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Zeiteinteilung für die ausgewählten Effekte einzustellen.
11.   Tap: Drücken Sie diese Taste mehrmals im gewünschten Tempo, um die BPM-Rate für Beat-
      Tempo-Effekte pro Kanal manuell einzustellen.
12.   FX 1–6: Drücken Sie eine dieser Tasten, um den entsprechenden Softwareeffekt zu
      aktivieren/deaktivieren, der in der Serato-Software FX 1 und FX 2 angezeigt wird. Durch
      Drücken der Tasten wird jeweils ein Effekt aktiviert, durch Drücken und Halten der Tasten
      werden mehrere Effekte gleichzeitig aktiviert.
13.   Effekte umschalten: Kippen Sie diesen Schalter vom Körper weg, um die Software-Effekte
      vorübergehend zu aktivieren. Kippen Sie den Schalter in die andere Richtung, um die Effekte
      zu deaktivieren.
      Ziehen und halten Sie diesen Schalter zum Körper hin, um die Software-Effekte vorübergehend
      zu aktivieren, und lassen Sie den Schalter los, um die Effekte zu deaktivieren. Der Schalter
      kehrt in die mittlere Position zurück.
14.   Deck Cue: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das Pre-Fader-Signal dieses Decks an den Cue-Kanal
      zum Monitoring zu senden. Wenn die Taste aktiviert ist, leuchtet sie auf. Um mehrere Kanäle
      gleichzeitig aufzurufen, drücken Sie die Deck Cue-Tasten für beide Decks.
15.   Deck Fader: Bewegen Sie diesen Fader, um die Lautstärke des entsprechenden Decks
      einzustellen.
16.   Crossfader: Bewegen Sie diesen Fader, um zwischen den Decks zu mischen.
17.   Search: Die Länge des Strips repräsentiert die Länge des gesamten Tracks. Legen Sie Ihren
      Finger auf einen Punkt dieser Sensorfläche, um zu dieser Stelle im Track zu springen. Die LEDs
      über dem Streifen zeigen die ungefähre Position des Abspielkopfs in der Spur an.
18.   Scroll/Load / Instant Doubles: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um durch die Listen zu blättern und
      drücken Sie ihn, um ein Element auszuwählen oder den aktuell ausgewählten Track ins Deck zu
      laden.
      Drücken Sie diesen Regler zweimal schnell hintereinander, um den gleichen Track auf beide
      Decks zu laden ("Instant Doubles").
19.   Back / Load Prep: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den vorherigen Bildschirm in der Software
      anzuzeigen.
      Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um den aktuell ausgewählten Track in
      den Bereich "Crate Vorbereiten" zu laden.
20.   Plattenteller mit Direktantrieb und hohem Drehmoment: Ein leistungsstarker Motor dreht
      diesen Aluminiumteller mit Geschwindigkeitspositionspunkten. Verwenden Sie den
      Motordrehmomentschalter auf der Rückseite, um das Drehmoment der Plattenteller einzustellen
      Hinweis: Der Plattenteller sollte nicht über längere Zeit hinweg in einer Position gehalten
      werden, während er sich dreht.
21.   Control-Disc mit Slipmat: Diese 18,2 cm (7,2") große Disc steuert den Audio-Abspielkopf in
      Ihrer DJ-Software. Legen Sie die mitgelieferte Slipmat unter die Control-Disc (oder verwenden
      Sie eine andere Slipmat, falls gewünscht).
      Hinweis: Die Control-Disc kann vom Benutzer ersetzt werden, indem der
      Schnellwechseladapter an Ihre eigene modifizierte Disc angebracht wird. Die Ersatz-Disc
      muss drei 6mm-Löcher haben. Die mitgelieferte Disc sollte als Referenz verwendet werden.
22.   Schnellwechseladapter: Dieser sichert die Control-Disc auf dem Plattenteller. Er ist an der
      Oberseite der Control-Disc angebracht. Um die Control-Disc oder Slipmat von der Platte zu
      entfernen, halten Sie die Taste an der Seite des Schnellwechseladapters gedrückt, während
      Sie die Disc von der Spindel abheben. Nachdem Sie die Disc wieder auf die Spindel gesetzt
      haben, drücken Sie auf die Oberseite der Spindel, während Sie die Disc langsam drehen, bis
      Sie ein Klicken hören. Sie rastet ein, wenn die Nut in der Spindel direkt gegenüber der Taste an
      der Seite des Schnellwechseladapters ausgerichtet ist.


                                                                                                   45
23.   Stop Time: Steuert die Geschwindigkeit, mit der der Plattenteller bis zum Stillstand bremst
      ("Bremszeit").
24.   Slip / Motor Off: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Slip-Modus zu aktivieren/deaktivieren. Im
      Slip-Modus können Sie zu Hot Cue-Punkten springen, Loop-Rolls auslösen oder die
      Plattenteller verwenden während die Zeitleiste des Tracks normal fortgesetzt wird. Mit anderen
      Worten: Wenn Sie die Aktion stoppen, nimmt der Track die normale Wiedergabe an jenem
      Punkt auf, an dem sich der Track befunden hätte, wenn Sie keine Aktionen durchgeführt hätten
      (praktisch als ob der Track einfach normal weitergespielt worden wäre).
      Halten Sie die Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Motor des entsprechenden
      Plattentellers zu aktivieren bzw. zu deaktivieren. Dies hat keinen Einfluss auf die Wiedergabe
      des Tracks.
25.   Censor / Reverse: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um Censor zu aktivieren, wodurch die
      Wiedergabe des Tracks vorübergehend umgekehrt wird. Lassen Sie diese Taste los, um die
      normale Wiedergabe ab der Stelle wieder aufzunehmen, an der sich der Track befunden hätte,
      wenn Sie die Censor-Funktion nie aktiviert hätten (so als ob der Track die ganze Zeit normal
      abgespielt worden wäre).
      Drücken Sie Shift und diese Taste, um die Umkehrung zu aktivieren, wodurch die Wiedergabe
      des Tracks umgekehrt wird. Drücken Sie die Taste erneut, um die normale Wiedergabe an der
      Stelle fortzusetzen, an der der Audio-Abspielkopf stoppt.
26.   Pitch Fader: Bewegen Sie diesen Fader, um die Geschwindigkeit (Pitch) des Tracks
      einzustellen. Sie können den Gesamtbereich mit den Pitch Range-Tasten einstellen.
27.   Pitch-Bereich / Keylock: Drücken Sie eine dieser Tasten, um den Bereich des Pitch Faders
      auf ±8%, ±16% und ±50% einzustellen.
      Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie dann diese Taste, um die Keylock-Funktion zu
      aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren: die Tonart des Songs wird sich danach richten, in welcher
      Position der Pitch-Fader war, als die Keylock-Funktion aktiviert wurde. Mit dieser Funktion
      können Sie das Tempo des Songs ändern, ohne die Tonart zu ändern.
28.   Pitch Bend -/+: Halten Sie eine dieser Tasten gedrückt, um das Tempo des Tracks
      vorübergehend (entweder) zu verringern oder zu erhöhen.
29.   Shift: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um auf sekundäre Funktionen anderer Bedienelemente
      des ONE zuzugreifen.
30.   Cue / Zurück: Wenn die Wiedergabe des Decks pausiert wird, können Sie einen temporären
      Cue-Punkt setzen, indem Sie den Plattenteller bewegen, um den Audio-Abspielkopf in die
      gewünschte Position zu bringen, und dann die Cue-Taste drücken.
      Während der Wiedergabe können Sie die Cue-Taste drücken, um den Track zu diesem
      temporären Cue-Punkt zurückzubringen. (Wenn Sie keinen temporären Cue-Punkt eingestellt
      haben, beginnt die Wiedergabe wieder am Beginn des Tracks.)
      Wenn das Deck pausiert ist, können Sie die Cue-Taste gedrückt halten, um den Track ab dem
      temporären Cue-Punkt wiederzugeben. Das Loslassen der Cue-Taste bringt den Track zum
      temporären Cue-Punkt zurück und pausiert ihn. Um die Wiedergabe fortzusetzen ohne zum
      temporären Cue-Punkt zurückzuspringen, halten Sie die Cue-Taste und dann die
      Wiedergabe-Taste gedrückt und lassen dann beide Tasten los.
      Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Track mit einem "Stottereffekt"
      zu versehen, indem Sie zum Anfang des Tracks zurückkehren und die Wiedergabe neu starten.
31.   Sync / Sync Off: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um Tempo und Phase des jeweiligen Decks mit dem
      Tempo und der Phase des anderen Decks automatisch zu synchronisieren. Halten Sie Shift
      und drücken Sie diese Taste, um Sync zu deaktivieren.
32.   Start/Stop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Plattenteller zu starten oder zu stoppen. Die LED
      um diese Taste leuchtet nur schwach, wenn das Gerät eingeschaltet ist und kein Track
      abgespielt wird. Sie leuchtet hell bei der Wiedergabe eines Tracks und blinkt rot, wenn der
      Track beinahe am Ende angelangt ist.
33.   Performance-Pads: Je nach aktuellem Pad-Modus besitzen diese Pads unterschiedliche
      Funktionen auf jedem Deck.
      Hinweis: Unter Betrieb > Pad-Modi erfahren Sie, wie Sie die Pads in jedem Modus verwenden.

46
34.   Hot Cue / Pitch Play: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Hot Cue-Modus aufzurufen. Drücken
      Sie die Taste ein zweites Mal, um den Pitch Play-Modus aufzurufen.
      Hinweis: Für die Verwendung des Pitch Play-Modus ist das Serato Pitch N Time-Plugin
      (separat erhältlich) erforderlich.
35.   Saved Loop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um in den Saved Loop-Modus zu gelangen.
36.   Roll / Auto Loop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um in den Roll-Modus zu gelangen. Drücken Sie
      die Taste ein zweites Mal, um den Auto Loop-Modus aufzurufen.
37.   Sampler: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um in den Sampler-Modus zu gelangen. Drücken Sie die
      Taste ein zweites Mal, um den Scratch Bank-Modus aufzurufen. In diesem Modus können Sie
      jedem Pad in der Software Songs zuweisen und dann auf das Pad tippen, um den Song schnell
      vom angegebenen Startpunkt auf das Deck zu laden. Dies ist nützlich, wenn Sie Song-Samples
      zum Scratchen vorbereiten und aufführen möchten.
38.   Slicer / Slicer Loop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um in den Slicer-Modus zu gelangen. Drücken
      Sie die Taste ein zweites Mal, um den Slicer Loop-Modus aufzurufen.
39.   Parameter /: Diese Tasten haben in jedem Pad-Modus unterschiedliche Funktionen. Halten
      Sie Shift gedrückt und verwenden Sie diese Tasten, um auf Sekundärparameter zuzugreifen.
40.   Loop On/Off / Reloop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um einen Auto-Loop mit der in der Software
      eingestellten Länge zu erstellen. Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um
      zum zuletzt gespielten Loop zu springen und diesen sofort zu aktivieren.
41.   Loop In / x1/2: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um einen Loop In-Punkt an der aktuellen
      Position zu erstellen.
      Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um die Länge des aktuellen Loops zu
      halbieren.
42.   Loop Out / x2: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um einen Loop Out-Punkt an der aktuellen
      Position zu erstellen.
      Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um die Länge des aktuellen Loops zu
      verdoppeln.

Vorderseite

          2              5                    8             9              11        13

      1        3     4       6            7       7                             12        14
                                                                10

1.    Mic 1 – Off/On: Ist Aus eingestellt, wird der Mic 1-Eingang deaktiviert. Ist Ein eingestellt, dann ist
      der Mic 1-Eingang auf der Rückseite aktiv und sein Audiosignal wird direkt zum Programm-Mix
      und Cue-Mix geroutet.
2.    Mic 1 Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Mic 1-Eingang einzustellen.
3.    Mic 1 Tone: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Balance zwischen tiefen Frequenzen (Bass) und
      hohen Frequenzen (Treble) des Audiosignals einzustellen, das vom Mic 1-Eingang kommt.
4.    Mic 2 – Aux/Off/Mic 2: Bei Einstellung auf Aux ist der Aux In auf der Rückseite aktiv. Ist Off
      eingestellt, sind sowohl der Aux-Eingang als auch der Mic 2-Eingang deaktiviert. Ist Mic 2
      eingestellt, dann ist der Mic 2-Eingang auf der Rückseite aktiv und sein Audiosignal wird direkt
      zum Programm-Mix und Cue- Mix geroutet. Beide Audiosignale werden direkt zum Programm-
      Mix und Cue-Mix geleitet, wenn sie aktiv sind.
5.    Mic 2 / Aux Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Mic 2-Eingangs oder des
      AUX-Eingangs einzustellen.
6.    Mic 2 / Aux Tone: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Balance zwischen tiefen Frequenzen
      (Bass) und hohen Frequenzen (Treble) des Audiosignals einzustellen, das vom Mic 2-Eingang
      oder AUX-Eingang kommt.
7.    Deck Reverse: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Ein, um die Richtung der Deck-Fader
      umzukehren. Stellen Sie es auf Aus, um die konventionelle Fader-Richtung zu verwenden.


                                                                                                         47
8.    Deck Contour: Passt die Steigung der Deckfaderkurve an. Drehen Sie den Regler nach links
      für sanfte Übergänge (Mixing) oder nach rechts für abrupte Übergänge (Scratching). Die
      Mittelposition ist eine typische Einstellung für Club-Performances.
9.    Crossfader Contour: Passt die Steigung der Crossfader-Kurve an. Drehen Sie den Regler
      nach links für sanfte Übergänge (Mixing) oder nach rechts für abrupte Übergänge (Scratching).
      Die Mittelposition ist eine typische Einstellung für Club-Performances.
10.   Crossfader Reverse: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Ein, um die Richtung des Crossfaders
      umzukehren. Stellen Sie es auf Aus, um die konventionelle Fader-Richtung zu verwenden.
11.   Cue Mix: Drehen Sie den Regler, um im Kopfhörerkanal zwischen Cue und Programm zu
      wechseln. Wenn der Regler ganz nach links gedreht ist, kann nur der Cue-Kanal gehört werden.
      Wenn der Regler ganz nach rechts gedreht ist, ist nur der Programm-Mix zu hören.
12.   Cue Split: Wenn dieser Schalter in der Position On, wird das Kopfhörersignal „aufgeteilt“, so
      dass der Cue-Kanal auf Mono summiert und an den linken Kopfhörerkanal gesendet wird und
      der Programm-Mix auf Mono summiert und an den rechten Kanal gesendet wird. Wenn dieser
      Schalter in der Position Off ist, wird der Cue-Kanal und Programm-Mix „zusammengemischt“.
      Verwenden Sie in beiden Fällen den Cue Mix-Regler, um den Mix der beiden Signale zu
      steuern.
13.   Cue Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Cue-Kanals einzustellen.
14.   Kopfhörerausgänge (1/4”, 1/8” / 6,35 mm, 3.5 mm, TRS): Schließen Sie Ihren 1/4" oder 1/8"-
      Kopfhörer (6,35 mm oder 3,5 mm) zum Cueing und Mix-Monitoring an diesen Ausgang an.


Rückseite

       1    2       4       6   7    8
                        5                                                            12     13
                                              9   10
                                                                          11
                3       3

1.    Mic Eingänge 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6,35 mm, TS): Verbinden Sie Mikrofone oder Line-Level-Geräte
      mit diesen Mono-Eingängen. Ihre Mono-Audiosignale werden aufgeteilt und direkt an den
      Stereo-Programm-Mix und den Cue-Kanal geleitet. Wenn Sie eine Stereo-Line-Eingabe
      bevorzugen, kann Aux-Eingänge verwendet werden.
2.    Aux In (Cinch): Verbinden Sie diese Eingänge mit einer externen Line-Level-Audioquelle.
      Denken Sie daran, den Mic 2/AUX -Schalter auf Aux zu stellen, um das Audiosignal
      abzuspielen.
3.    Phono/Line-Wahlschalter: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf die richtige Position, je nachdem,
      welches Gerät an die Phono/Line-Eingänge des entsprechenden Decks angeschlossen ist.
      Wenn Sie Phono-Level-Plattenspieler verwenden, stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Phono, um eine
      zusätzliche Verstärkung zu ermöglichen, die bei Phono-Level-Signalen notwendig ist. Wenn Sie
      ein Line-Level-Gerät, wie etwa einen Line-Level-Plattenspieler, einen CD-Player oder einen
      Sampler, verwenden, stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Line.
4.    Deck Phono/Line In (Cinch): Schließen Sie diese Eingänge an eine externe Audioquelle oder
      an einen Plattenspieler, CD-Player oder ein anderes Line-Level-Gerät an. Denken Sie daran,
      den entsprechenden Phono/Line-Wahlschalter auf die richtige Position zu stellen und den
      Deck-Quellenwahlschalter für dieses Deck auf Phono/Line zu stellen, um sein Audiosignal
      auf diesem Deck abzuspielen.
5.    Phono Ground: Wenn Sie Phono-Level-Plattenspieler mit einem Erdungsdraht verwenden,
      verbinden Sie den Draht mit diese Klemme. Wenn Sie ein tiefes Brummgeräusch oder Summen
      hören, könnte dies bedeuten, dass Ihre Plattenspieler nicht geerdet sind.
      Hinweis: Einige Plattenspieler haben einen im Cinch-Anschluss integrierten Erdungsdraht. In
      diesem Fall muss nichts an die Erdungsklemmen angeschlossen werden.
6.    Session-Ausgang (Cinch): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit einem anderen Mixer,
      Aufnahmegerät usw. Der Programmmix wird an diese Ausgänge gesendet.


48
7.    Main-Ausgang (XLR): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit Ihren Lautsprechern oder einem
      Verstärkersystem. Verwenden Sie den Main-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke
      einzustellen.
8.    Booth-Ausgang (XLR): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit Booth-Monitoren oder einem Booth-
      Verstärkersystem. Verwenden Sie den Booth-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke
      einzustellen.
9.    USB-Anschlüsse (USB Typ-B): Verwenden Sie USB-Kabel, um diese Anschlüsse mit einem
      freien USB-Anschluss Ihres Computers zu verbinden. Diese Verbindungen senden und
      empfangen MIDI-Steuerinformationen an - oder von - einem Computer.
      Hinweis: Stellen Sie sicher, dass Sie das Rane Control-Panel von rane.com heruntergeladen
      und installiert haben.
10.   Drehmoment des Motors: Legen Sie diesen Schalter um, um das Drehmoment der
      Plattenteller einzustellen. Ist der Schalter nach oben gekippt, fühlen sich die Plattenteller so
      schwer und robust wie die „modernen“ Plattenspieler an. Ist der Schalter nach unten gekippt,
      sind sie leichter und beweglicher—etwa wie bei einem „klassischen“ Plattenspieler.
11.   Lüfter: Der Bereich vor dieser Lüftungsöffnung darf nie blockiert werden. Der Ventilator
      verhindert, dass das Gerät überhitzt.
12.   Netzeingang: Während ONE ausgeschaltet ist, schließen Sie das mitgelieferte Netzkabel an
      diesen Eingang und dann an eine Steckdose an.
13.   Netzschalter: Verwenden Sie diesen Schalter, um ONE ein- oder auszuschalten. Schalten Sie
      ONE erst ein, nachdem Sie all Ihre Eingabegeräte verbunden haben und bevor Sie Ihren
      Verstärker und Lautsprecher einschalten. Schalten Sie Ihre Verstärker und Lautsprecher aus,
      bevor Sie Ihren ONE ausschalten.



Betrieb

Pad-Modi

In diesem Kapitel werden die verschiedenen Pad-
Modi beschrieben. Jedes Deck hat acht Pads, die
sich stets in einem dieser Modi befinden. Die Pads
eines Decks können sich in einem anderen Modus
befinden. Drücken Sie eine der Pad Modus-Tasten,
um in den entsprechenden Pad-Modus auf diesem                 1          2           3          4
Deck zu wechseln.


Hot Cue                                                       5          6           7          8
Im Cue-Modus weist jedes Pad einen Hot Cue-Punkt
zu oder lässt den Track zu diesem Hot Cue-Punkt
zurückspringen.
Um in den Hot Cue-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Hot Cue.

Um einen Hot-Cue-Punkt zuzuweisen, drücken Sie ein unbeleuchtetes Pad an der gewünschten
Stelle in Ihrem Track. Das Pad leuchtet auf, wenn es zugewiesen ist (mit der entsprechenden Farbe,
falls verfügbar).
Um zu einem Hot-Cue-Punkt zu springen, drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad.
Um einen zugewiesenen Hot Cue-Punkt zu löschen, drücken Sie die Shift und das
entsprechende Pad.




                                                                                                    49
Pitch Play                                                            Aufwärts

Im Pitch Play-Modus spielt jedes Pad den Track
eines     Hot-Cue-Punkts       in   einer   anderen      +4          +5         +6           +7
                                                      Halbtöne    Halbtöne   Halbtöne     Halbtöne
Transposition (in Halbtönen einstellbar). Das
Serato Pitch'n Time DJ Expansion Pack (separat
erhältlich) muss installiert sein, um diesen Modus
                                                          0
zu verwenden. Im Hot Cue erfahren Sie, wie Sie                      +1          +2           +3
                                                      (Original
Hot-Cue-Punkte zuweisen.                                          Halbton    Halbtöne     Halbtöne
                                                      Tonhöhe)
Um den Pitch Play-Modus aufzurufen, drücken
Sie ein zweites Mal Hot Cue.                                            Mitte
Um auszuwählen, welcher Hot-Cue-Punkt
verwendet werden soll, drücken Sie Shift und             0
                                                                    +1          +2           +3
                                                      (Original
ein schwach beleuchtetes Pad.                                     Halbton    Halbtöne     Halbtöne
                                                      Tonhöhe)
Um den Transpositionsbereich auszuwählen,
den die Pads verwenden, verwenden Sie die
Parameter /-Tasten (siehe Diagramme).                  -4          -3         -2          -1
Um die Tonart des aktuellen Tracks nach unten         Halbtöne    Halbtöne   Halbtöne     Halbton
oder oben zu verschieben, drücken Sie die Taste
Shift bzw. die Tasten Parameter /.                                 Abwärts
Um den Track vom Hot-Cue-Punkt abzuspielen,
drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad. Jedes Pad                                                   0
                                                         -3          -2           -1
entspricht einer spezifischen Transposition (in                                           (Original
                                                      Halbtöne    Halbtöne      Halbton
                                                                                          Tonhöhe)
Halbtonschritten) je nach dem aktuellen Bereich der
Tranposition (siehe Diagramme). Das Pad ohne
Transposition (ursprüngliche Tonhöhe) leuchtet
weiß.                                                    -7          -6         -5           -4
                                                      Halbtöne    Halbtöne   Halbtöne     Halbtöne


Saved Loop
Im Modus Gespeichertes Loop löst jedes Pad einen zuvor in Ihrer Software gespeicherten Loop aus.
Drücken Sie zum Aufrufen des Modus Gespeichertes Loop die Taste Saved Loop.
Um einen Loop abzuspielen, drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad. Die acht Pads jedes Decks
entsprechen den gespeicherten Loops 1 bis 8 in Ihrer Software. Die Farbe jedes Pads entspricht der
Farbe, die jedem Loop in Ihrer Software zugewiesen ist.

Roll
Im Roll-Modus löst jedes Pad einen temporären Loop-Roll aus. Das Loslassen des Pads stoppt die
Loop-Roll und wechselt zur normalen Wiedergabe an den Punkt, an dem die Wiedergabe sich
befinden würde, wenn keine Loop-Roll getriggert worden wäre (so als ob der Track normal
wiedergegeben worden wäre).
Hinweis: Deaktivieren Sie Show Beat Jump Controls im Serato Setup-Menü, um auf 8 Loop-Rolls
gleichzeitig zuzugreifen. Sie können in der Software auch die festgelegten Loop-Größen anzeigen
und bearbeiten.
Um in den Roll-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Roll, so dass es türkis leuchtet.
Um einen Loop-Roll auszulösen, halten Sie ein Pad gedrückt.
Um zu ändern, welche acht Längen (in der Software) für die Loop-Rolls angezeigt werden,
drücken Sie einen der Parameter /-Tasten. Das Pad-Layout wird verschoben, um es
anzupassen.
Um einen Loop-Roll rückwärts oder vorwärts zu verschieben, drücken Sie Shiftund die
jeweiligen Parameter /-Tasten.



50
Auto-Loop                                                             Auto-Loop-Längen
Im Autoloop-Modus triggert oder gibt jedes Pad einen
Autoloop mit unterschiedlicher Länge frei.
                                                           1/4 Beat    1/2 Beat    1 Beat    2 Beats
Um den Auto-Loop-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie ein
zweites Mal Roll.


Sampler                                                    4 Beats     8 Beats    16 Beats   32 Beats

Im Sampler-Modus löst jedes Pad ein Sample aus, das
Sie in der Software zuweisen können.


Scratch-Bank
Im Scratch Bank-Modus lädt jedes Pad einen Song in das ausgewählte Deck. Sie können den Song
zuweisen und den Startpunkt in der Software festlegen. Dies ist nützlich, wenn Sie Song-Samples
zum Scratchen vorbereiten und aufführen möchten.
Um den gespeicherten Scratch Bank-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie ein zweites Mal auf
Sample.


Slicer
Wichtig: Ihr Track muss über ein Beatgrid verfügen, damit dieser Modus funktioniert.
Im Slicer-Modus repräsentieren die acht Pads acht aufeinanderfolgende Schläge - sogenannte
„Slices“ - innerhalb des Beat-Grid. Die aktuell wiedergegebene Slice wird durch das aktuell
beleuchtete Pad dargestellt; das Licht „bewegt sich durch die Pads“, so wie es sich durch jedes der
acht Slices bewegt. Sie können ein Pad drücken, um diese Slice abzuspielen. Wenn Sie das Pad
loslassen, wird der Track zur normalen Wiedergabe zu jenem Punkt zurückkehren, an dem sich der
Track befinden würde, wenn Sie das Pad nie gedrückt hätten (so als ob der Track einfach normal
weitergelaufen wäre).
Um in den Slicer-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Slicer / Transport, so dass es rot leuchtet. Das
Deck wird den Slicer-Modus verlassen, wenn Sie einen anderen Track in das Deck laden oder den
Grid-Bearbeitungsmodus aktivieren.
Um eine Scheibe abzuspielen, drücken Sie das entsprechende Pad.
Um die Quantize-Größe zu erhöhen oder zu reduzieren, drücken Sie auf die Parameter /-
Tasten.
Um die Größe des Slices zu erhöhen oder zu reduzieren, drücken Sie Shift und die Parameter
/-Tasten.


Slicer Loop
Drücken Sie Slicer ein zweites Mal, um den Slicer Loop-Modus aufzurufen. Die Pads verhalten sich
genauso wie im Slicer-Modus, mit dem Unterschied, dass die Phrase mit den acht Slices als
kontinuierlicher Loop im Track wiedergegeben wird.




                                                                                                 51
52
Appendix (English)
Technical Specifications

Digital Audio
Converters                       Cirrus Logic, 24-bit PCM, 48 kHz

Digital Signal Processing        32-bit, Floating Pont, Double precision

Dynamic Range                    ADC                             113 dB
(A-weighted, unity gain)         DAC                             113 dB
                                 CD Input to Analog Output       110 dB
                                 CD Input to USB Output          113 dB
                                 USB Input to Analog Output      113 dB

Inputs
Microphone 1/2                   Analog Gain                     25 dB
(Combo XLR/1/4" [6.35 mm] TRS,   Maximum Input                   110 mV
Mic/Line switchable)
                                 Gain Trim                       Off to +26 dB (unity at center)
                                 Tone Control                    2-band

Aux Input                        Maximum Input                   4 Vrms
(RCA stereo pair)                Dynamic Range (A-weighted)      114 dB
                                 Gain Trim                       Off to +12 dB
                                 Tone Control                    2-band

CD/Phono Inputs 1/2              CD                              Line
(RCA stereo pairs, switchable)   Maximum Input                   4 Vrms
                                 Gain Trim                       Off to +12 dB
                                 Tone Control                    3-band, full-cut to +10 dB
                                 THD+N (20 kHz BW @ 1 kHz)       0.004%

                                 Phono                           RIAA
                                 RIAA Curve                      +/-0.25 dB
                                 Gain (@ 1 kHz)                  31.5 dB
                                 Maximum Input (@ 1 kHz)         106 mV
                                 Dynamic Range (A-weighted)      102 dB

Outputs
Main Outputs                     Gain Trim                       Off to 0 dB
(XLR)                            Maximum Output                  8 Vrms
                                 THD+N (20 kHz BW @ 1 kHz)       0.004%
                                 Frequency Response              Flat

Booth Outputs                    Gain Trim                       Off to 0 dB
(XLR)                            Maximum Output                  8 Vrms
                                 THD+N (20 kHz BW @ 1 kHz)       0.004%
                                 Frequency Response              Flat




                                                                                                   53
 Outputs (continued)
 Master Outputs                     Maximum Output                    4 Vrms
 (RCA stereo pair)                  THD+N (20 kHz BW @ 1 kHz)         0.004%
                                    Frequency Response                Flat

 Headphone Outputs                  Maximum Output Voltage            4 Vrms (no load)
 (1/4"/6.35 mm and 1/8"/3.5 mm      Output Power                      50 mW (50 ohms)
 TRS)
                                    Dynamic Range (A-weighted)        108 dB

 General
 Pads                               (16) on/off multi-color back-lit pads (8 per deck, 8 modes each)

 Faders                             (1) MAG FOUR tension-adjustable crossfader with independent
                                    Contour and Reverse controls
                                    (2) Standard channel faders with shared Contour and Reverse
                                    controls

 Connectors                         (2) XLR outputs (Main)
                                    (2) XLR outputs (Booth)
                                    (1) RCA stereo output pair (Master)
                                    (2) XLR / 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS inputs (Mic 1–2)
                                    (2) RCA stereo input pairs (Deck 1–2)
                                    (1) RCA stereo input pair (Aux)
                                    (1) 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS output (Headphones)
                                    (1) 1/8” (3.5 mm) TRS output (Headphones)
                                    (2) USB Type-B ports
                                    (1) IEC power cable input

 Power                              Connection: IEC
                                    Voltage: 100–240 V, 50/60 Hz
                                    Consumption: 50 W

 Dimensions                         26.5” x 13.6” x 4.9”
 (width x depth x height)           674 x 345 x 124.3 mm

 Weight                             23.55 lbs.
 (including platters)               10.68 kg

Specifications are subject to change without notice.



Trademarks & Licenses
Rane is a trademark of inMusic Brands, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Serato, Serato DJ Pro, and the Serato logo are registered trademarks of Serato Audio Research.
All other product names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners.




54
55
rane.com




Manual Version 1.5
