Europe, Middle East   North America/
ENGLISH               Norteamérica
FRANÇAIS              ENGLISH
DEUTSCH               FRANÇAIS
NEDERLANDS            ESPAÑOL
ITALIANO              Latin America/
ESPAÑOL               América Latina
PORTUGUÊS             ENGLISH
РУССКИЙ               ESPAÑOL
ČESTINA               PORTUGUÊS
TÜRKÇE
POLSKI                Asia Pacific
SVENSKA               日本語
SUOMI                 简体中文
SLOVENCINA            繁體中文
MAGYAR NYELV          한국어
                      ENGLISH
‫עברית‬
‫العربية‬
User Manual
            TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.   BOX CONTENTS ........................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS ................. 10

3.   FEATURES .................................................. 13

     Overview ..........................................................13

     Decks................................................................14

     Mixing ...............................................................32

     Connectors ......................................................43

4.   INSTALLATION ........................................... 46

     Connections ....................................................46

     Downloading the software ............................49

5.   LIVENING UP YOUR MIX............................ 54

     Modes and pads .............................................54

     Scratching .......................................................70

     Filters................................................................71
6.   MULTICHANNEL SOUND CARD ............... 72

     Master output for speakers (output 1-2) .....73

     Headphones output (output 3-4) ..................74

     Microphone input ...........................................76

7.   COMPATIBILITY ......................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO and Windows® control panel .............78

     Firmware update.............................................81

     Testing the DJ controller in the control

     panel .................................................................82

8.   DEMO MODE ............................................... 86

9.   FAQS............................................................ 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 is a full-featured controller
designed to help you master the art of vinyl turntables
thanks to two motorized platters, video tutorials and
integration of the DJUCED and Serato DJ Lite software.




 Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 includes a license for
 Serato DJ Lite, not a license for Serato DJ Pro.
 Serato DJ Lite can be used without any time limit.
 If you install Serato DJ Pro instead of Serato DJ Lite,
 Serato DJ Pro will work with your DJControl Inpulse T7
 for the duration of a trial period. At the end of this trial
 period, if you want to continue using Serato DJ Pro, you
 must purchase a Serato DJ Pro license.




                              4
A wide variety of video tutorials are available to help
you learn to mix with the Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
controller:
  − Hercules DJ Academy:
         o In DJUCED, by clicking the    icon.
         o On the DJUCED website.
  − The Hercules Audio YouTube channel.
  − The DJ Coach, with courses given by DJ HAPA
     on Serato DJ Lite.




                          5
 1.    Box contents

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Two vinyl records (7 inches / 17.8 cm)
 − Two felt slipmats
 − Braided USB cable
 − Removable power cable
 − Power adapter
 − Instruction manual
 − Warranty flyer




                          6
You can remove the protective films covering the VU
meters   on   the   Hercules   DJControl    Inpulse T7
controller. You can also leave the protective films in
place, as they do not affect the use of the VU meters.




                           7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Two vinyl records (7 inches / 17.8 cm)
 − Two felt slipmats
 − Two thin felt slipmats
 − Braided USB cable
 − Removable power cable
 − Power adapter
 − Carry bag
 − Instruction manual
 − Warranty flyer




You can remove the protective films covering the VU
meters on the Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium
Edition controller. You can also leave the protective
films in place, as they do not affect the use of the VU
meters.




                            9
  2.     Technical specifications
System requirements:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements


Audio outputs:
             o Resolution = 24-bit
             o Sample rate = 44.1 kHz


Master outputs for speakers (output 1-2) via:
  − Two RCA connectors:
             o Maximum output power = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Two XLR connectors (balanced):
             o Maximum output power = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Headphones output (output 3-4) via one 1/8” / 3.5 mm
stereo mini-jack connector and one ¼” / 6.35 mm stereo
jack connector:
             o Maximum output power = 5 dBU for 32Ω
               @ 1 kHz


Microphone input via one ¼” / 6.35 mm jack connector
(balanced)


                            10
                   Power supply
− Only use the power supply indicated in the user
  manual.
− Only use the power supply with the network voltage
  and frequency indicated on the power supply’s rating
  plate.




                         11
    Information regarding the power supply
    Published                  Value             Unit
   information
  Manufacturer’s          GUILLEMOT
name or trademark      CORPORATION S.A.
Business number      414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
     Address          2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                          56910 Carentoir
                               France
 Model identifier         A481-1852590D
  Input voltage              100 - 240            V
Input AC frequency             50 - 60           Hz
 Output voltage                 18.5             V DC
  Output current                2.6               A
  Output power                  47.9              W
 Average active                 87.8              %
   efficiency
 Efficiency at low              87.8              %
    load (10%)
 No-load power                  0.10              W
  consumption




                          12
 3.     Features

Overview




 1. Motorized platter
 2. Transport buttons (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Loop controls (Loop)
 4. Track      selection   controls     (Browser,   Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempo fader (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads and modes
 7. Playback modes
 8. Monitoring, volumes (Master, Headphones and
      Microphone) and Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixing section (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixer (Crossfader, volume faders)
 11. Effects




                           13
Decks

  1. Motorized platter




Felt slipmat: placed between the motorized platter and
the vinyl record. It protects the vinyl record from rubbing
against the platter, and reduces vibrations when playing
the record.




 You must always be sure to place the felt slipmat on the
 motorized platter before installing the vinyl record.




                            14
Vinyl record: lets you scratch, speed up or slow down
playback, and move within the track.
The line on the vinyl record’s label is a point of reference
(i.e. a marker) for mixing and scratching.


The action carried out depends on two criteria:
  − track playing or paused;
  − the spot where you are touching the vinyl record (top
    or ring).


                            Top




      Ring




                            15
Actions of the vinyl records with Serato DJ Lite and Serato
DJ Pro:


   Play/Pause       Motorized platter     SHIFT button
       Play                 Top                  -
                        Scratching
       Play              Top/Ring        Press and hold
               Move quickly within the track
       Play                Ring                  -
              Speed up or slow down playback
      Pause              Top/Ring                -
                Move slowly within the track
      Pause              Top/Ring        Press and hold
               Move quickly within the track




                            16
Actions of the vinyl records with DJUCED:


   Play/Pause        Motorized platter    SHIFT button
       Play                 Top                 -
                        Scratching
       Play              Top/Ring         Press and hold
               Move quickly within the track
       Play                 Ring                -
              Speed up or slow down playback
      Pause                 Ring                -
                Move slowly within the track




                            17
Motorized platter: drives the vinyl record that controls
the playback of the track and the track’s speed according
to the tempo set with the tempo fader.


When the Beatmatch Guide function is enabled, the BEAT
ALIGN visual guides indicate the direction in which you
need to turn the ring (i.e. the edge) of the motorized platter
in order to align the beat grids of the two tracks. When the
two red arrows are not lit up, the beat grids are aligned.


For more information on the Beatmatch Guide function,
please read the Beatmatch Guide section.




 It is not possible to disable the platters’ motorization.




 − When the motorized platter is turning, avoid holding
   it stopped with your hand for very long, so as not to
   damage the drive system.
 − When placing the vinyl record on the motorized
   platter, do not force it. You risk damaging the center
   of the vinyl record.




                             18
  2. Transport buttons




SHIFT: combined control. For example:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): locks the track’s
    musical key.
  − SHIFT + IN: in DJUCED®, divides the size of the
    active loop by two.


SYNC: enables or disables automatic synchronization of
the BPM (beats per minute) values of two tracks.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o In DJUCED: makes the deck the master
        synchronization (Master Sync) deck.
      o In Serato DJ Lite: disables synchronization on
        the deck.




                          19
CUE: inserts a Cue point in the track to identify a specific
instant, or moves the deck playhead to the Cue point’s
position.
  − Track paused: inserts a Cue point at the spot where
     the track is stopped.
  − Track playing: stops playback of the track and moves
     the deck playhead to the Cue point.
       o In DJUCED, if no Cue point has been defined,
            pressing CUE stops playback and places a Cue
            point at the playhead’s location.
       o In Serato DJ Lite, if no Cue point has been
            defined, pressing CUE stops playback and
            places a Cue point at the beginning of the track.
  − CUE + PLAY: moves the playhead to the Cue point
     and plays the track from that point.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o In DJUCED: moves the playhead to the start of
            the track, and stops playback.
      o In Serato DJ Lite: moves the playhead to the
            start of the track, and starts playback.


Play/Pause: plays or pauses the track.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: in Serato DJ Lite, moves the
     playhead to the Cue point and plays the track from
     this marker.




                               20
  3. Loop controls




AUTOLOOP encoder:
  − Press the encoder: enables or disables playback of
    the loop.
  − Turn the encoder: adjusts the length of the loop.


IN/OUT: enables a loop by choosing the in point (IN) and
the out point (OUT).
When the loop is active (i.e. enabled):
  − Press IN (the button flashes) and turn the motorized
    platter to move the start of the loop.
  − Press OUT (the button flashes) and turn the
    motorized platter to move the end of the loop.
To exit the loop, press the AUTOLOOP encoder.
In DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: divides the size of the active loop by two.
  − SHIFT + OUT: multiplies the size of the active loop
    by two.
  − Long press on IN: enables a loop of four beats.




                            21
  4. Track selection controls




BROWSER encoder*: lets you browse through your
music library and the list of tracks by turning the encoder
to the left (up) or to the right (down).
Press the encoder to select folders and load the selected
track on the destination deck.


Illuminated ring:
  − In DJUCED, shows the energy level of the master
     track for the tempo.
  − In Serato DJ Lite, shows the rhythm. The light flashes
     to the beat of the track:
            o Red: indicates the first beat.
            o Blue: indicates the three following beats.




                              22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − In DJUCED, displays the panel suggesting the best
    upcoming tracks for your mix.
    To move through the list of suggested tracks, turn the
    BROWSER encoder.
    To select a track, press the BROWSER encoder. The
    track already loaded on this deck must be paused.
    Press ASSIST./PREP. and turn the encoder to adjust
    the energy level of the tracks being suggested.
  − In Serato DJ Lite, adds the track currently being
    played to the Prepare list.
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: opens the Prepare panel.


BACK*: lets you move through the tree structure in
DJUCED and Serato DJ Lite.
  − In DJUCED, press SHIFT and BACK to return to the
    Library column.




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.
                            23
  5. Tempo fader




Tempo fader: sets the track’s playback speed by
adjusting the number of BPM.
  − Move up: slows down the track.
  − Move down: speeds up the track.
  − Tempo fader in the middle: the track’s original speed.
    The white LED is lit up.


When the Beatmatch Guide function is enabled, the
TEMPO visual guides indicate whether you need to move
the tempo fader up or down, in order to slow down or
speed up the track. When the two red arrows are off, the
tempo on that deck is identical to the tempo on the other
deck.


For more information on the Beatmatch Guide function,
please read the Beatmatch Guide section.



                           24
In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, when SYNC mode
is enabled, pressing SHIFT and moving the tempo fader
at the same time lets you move the tempo fader’s values
while maintaining the amplitude.


For example, with a tempo scale of ±8%, or 16%
amplitude, you can move the tempo fader’s values to
cover from 0% (maximum) to -16% (minimum), which still
results in 16% amplitude, with -8% in the center.




                           25
RANGE*: lets you change the tempo scale of the tempo
faders.
  − In DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
       ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − In Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): locks the track’s musical
key.
To make sure that musical key is locked, press SHIFT.
The RANGE button is lit up.




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.


                            26
  6. Pads and modes




Mode buttons: lets you enable up to eight modes.
To enable a main mode, press HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2,
STEMS 3 or SAMPLER 4.
To enable a secondary mode (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE
7 and MODE 8), simultaneously press SHIFT and HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 or SAMPLER 4. The mode
button flashes.
The modes enabled on the pads vary according to the
software being used.


For more information about the different modes with
DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, please read
the Modes and pads section.


Performance pads: a pad performs an action.




                         27
  7. Playback modes




INSTRUMENTAL: lets you play just the Melody, Bass
and Drums parts of a track. This is a shortcut for Stems
mode.
  − To play just the Melody, Bass and Drums parts of a
    track, press the INSTRUMENTAL button. The button
    lights up.
  − To resume playing all parts of a track (Vocals,
    Melody,      Bass   and     Drums),    press    the
    INSTRUMENTAL button again. The button’s light
    turns off.




                          28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: enables Slip mode. In Slip
mode, the deck playhead continues to advance in the
background when you apply an effect or a loop, place a
Cue point, or when you use the motorized platters. When
you stop applying an effect, playback resumes from the
point where the track would be if it had kept playing.
To make sure that Slip mode is enabled, press SHIFT.
The INSTRUMENTAL button is lit up.




 Serato DJ Lite does not feature Slip mode.
 Serato DJ Pro features Slip mode.




                            29
VOCAL: lets you play just the Vocals part of a track. This
is a shortcut for Stems mode.
  − To play just the Vocals part of a track, press the
    VOCAL button. The button lights up.
  − To resume playing all parts of a track (Vocals,
    Melody, Bass and Drums), press the VOCAL button
    again. The button’s light turns off.


SHIFT + VOCAL: enables Quantize mode. Quantization
lets you apply an action on the next beat in the grid (play
the track, place a Cue point, start a loop…).
To make sure that Quantize mode is enabled, press
SHIFT. The VOCAL button is lit up.




 Serato DJ Lite does not feature Quantize mode.
 Serato DJ Pro features Quantize mode.




                            30
      (pitch bend -) /           (pitch bend +): lets you
manually align the beat grid of the track being played on
this deck with the beat grid of the other deck.
  − Press and hold         to momentarily slow down the
    deck.
  − Press and hold          to momentarily speed up the
    deck.




 In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +       and
 SHIFT +        let you adjust settings in certain modes
 (Settings).




                            31
Mixing

  8. Monitoring, volume and Beatmatch Guide




MIC volume: adjusts the volume of the microphone.


MIC illuminated ring: indicates the level of the audio
signal (VU meter).
  − Off: there is no audio signal.
  − Green: the audio signal is being played.
  − Red: the audio signal is saturated.


MASTER volume: adjusts the volume of the mix being
played on your speakers.


MASTER VU meter: displays the level of the audio signal
of the Master output (RCA or XLR) for speakers.


                            32
HEADPHONES volume:
 −       /       : adjusts the signal being played on your
     headphones, mixing the Cue output (monitoring of
     decks 1 and 2) and the Mix output (Master output).
       o To only listen to the monitoring, press the
         Monitoring buttons for decks 1 and 2. The
         buttons light up. Then set the knob to Cue.
       o To only listen to the Master output, press the
         Master Monitoring button. The button lights up.
         Then set the knob to Mix to adjust the mix being
         played on your headphones.
 −           : adjusts the volume of the headphones output.




                             33
Monitoring: selects the sound source played on your
headphones.
  −        (located below the MASTER VU meter): plays
      the sound of the mix also being played out loud for
      the audience.
  −       * (located on both sides of the BEATMATCH
      GUIDE button): plays the sound of deck 1 or deck 2
      when the Cue/Mix button is set to Cue.
In Serato DJ Lite, press SHIFT and          * (next to the
BEATMATCH GUIDE button) to modify the beat grid of
the track being played on this deck. To exit the beat grid
editing mode, click Edit Grid.




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.


                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: enables or disables the light
guides to adjust the tempo and align the beat grids of the
two tracks. There are four red arrows per deck.




 DJUCED® defines one of the decks as the master
 synchronization (Master Sync) deck, and the other as
 the slave deck. The red arrows only light up on the
 slave deck, as this deck follows the tempo of the master
 synchronization deck.
 Serato   DJ    Lite   does     not   define   a   master
 synchronization deck. The red arrows light up on both
 decks.




                           35
− TEMPO visual guides: if one of the two red arrows
  located to the right of a tempo fader is lit up, this
  means that the tempo (i.e. number of beats per
  minute) of the track being played on this deck is
  different than the tempo of the other deck.
  The arrows indicate the direction in which you need
  to move the tempo fader in order to adjust the tempo
  of the track being played to match the tempo on the
  other deck.
        o Top arrow lit up: move the tempo fader up.
           This will slow down the tempo.
        o Bottom arrow lit up: move the tempo fader
           down. This will speed up the tempo.
        o Arrows not lit up: the deck’s tempo is
           identical to the tempo of the master
           synchronization deck.




                         36
− BEAT ALIGN visual guides: if one of the two red
  arrows located below a motorized platter is lit up, this
  means that the beats of the track being played on this
  deck are not aligned with the beats of the other deck.
  The arrows indicate the direction in which you need
  to turn the motorized platter in order to align the beats
  of the track being played with the beats of the other
  deck.
          o Left arrow lit up: turn the motorized platter
            clockwise. This speeds up the playback
            speed.
          o Right arrow lit up: turn the motorized platter
            counterclockwise. This slows down the
            playback speed.
          o Arrows not lit up: the deck’s beats are
            aligned with the beats of the other deck.




                          37
  9. Mixing section




GAIN knob*: adjusts the gain (i.e. the volume level before
the volume fader).


3-band equalizer (EQ)*: controls the intensity of the EQ.
A knob is associated with each band: HIGH, MID and
LOW.


FILTER knob*: adjusts the frequency of the dual filter
(high-pass and low-pass).




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.


                            38
  10.      Mixer




VU meter: displays the level of the audio signal of decks
1 and 2.


Volume fader*: adjusts the deck’s volume.


Crossfader: lets you make a transition between two
tracks by increasing the volume of one of the decks, while
decreasing the volume of the other deck.
  − Crossfader all the way to the left: you only hear the
    track on deck 1.
  − Crossfader all the way to the right: you only hear the
    track on deck 2.
  − Crossfader in the middle: you hear the tracks on both
    decks 1 and 2 at the same time.
                           39
Curve switch: lets you modify the crossfader curve.
  −       (mix): progressive mixing of the two decks.
  −       (scratch): very fast mixing of the two decks.
  −       (disabled): crossfader disabled, to mix using the
      volume faders only.




 In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, you can modify
 the crossfader settings. Go to Settings, then Mixer:
 − Power: fast curve for scratching.
 − Linear: progressive curve for mixing.
 − Reverse: reverses the direction of the crossfader,
      also known as “Hamster” mode.




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.



                             40
     11.         Effects




To display the effects rack:
     − In DJUCED: click           .
     − In Serato DJ Lite: click         .


Effects buttons            /   /   *: lets you select an effect from
the effects rack. The button lights up.
To enable an effect, use the performance lever.
To modify the effects associated with buttons             /    /    ,
select a new effect in the effects rack. In Serato DJ Lite
and Serato DJ Pro, you can also press SHIFT and                 ,
or         to display the list of effects, then press SHIFT and
     ,     or      again to move through the list and select the
new effect.




 In Serato DJ Lite:
 − It is possible to combine multiple effects at the same
         time.




                                   41
 − The three effects         /      /   on the left apply to the
      left-hand deck (Deck 1), and the three effects       /    /
         on the right apply to the right-hand deck (Deck 2).
 In Serato DJ Pro, the two groups of three effects
 buttons apply to the two virtual decks.


Performance lever*: lets you enable an effect loaded on
buttons      ,    or   . There are three different positions:
  − HOLD: continuously enables the effect while the
       lever is in this position.
  − ON: momentarily enables the effect while the lever is
       in this position.
  − Central position: effect disabled.


DEPTH knob: adjusts the intensity of the effect.


  /      buttons: adjusts the duration of the cycle of the
effect synchronized with the music.




 DJUCED does not include this functionality.




*The functionality is identical on decks 1 and 2.

                                 42
Connectors




  12.   Master output for speakers (output 1-2)
  13.   Balanced microphone input
  14.   USB-B 2.0 port
  15.   POWER button
  16.   Connector for power adapter
  17.   Headphones output (output 3-4)


Master output for speakers (output 1-2): lets you
connect active speakers.
Formats: 2 x unbalanced RCA (Cinch) and 2 x balanced
XLR.


Balanced microphone input: lets you connect a
balanced or unbalanced microphone.
Format: ¼” / 6.35 mm jack.




                             43
USB-B 2.0 port: lets you connect the controller to a
computer.


POWER button: lets you power on and power off the
DJControl Inpulse T7 controller.


Connector for power adapter: lets you connect the
power cable and plug the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller
into an electrical outlet using the adapter.


Headphones output (output 3-4): lets you connect
headphones in order to monitor tracks.
Formats: 1/8” / 3.5 mm stereo mini-jack connector and ¼”
/ 6.35 mm stereo jack connector.




                             44
Extend the four retractable feet to elevate the
DJControl Inpulse T7 controller and run the cables
underneath it.




− Retract the feet before transporting the DJControl
  Inpulse T7 controller.
− Retract the feet when you are not using the
  DJControl Inpulse T7 controller.
− When the feet are extended, do not press down on
  the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller with more than
  11 lb / 5 kg / 50 newtons of force.




                           45
 4.      Installation

Connections
 1. Connect the power adapter to the DJControl
   Inpulse T7 controller.
 2. Connect the power cable to the power adapter, and
   plug it into an electrical outlet.
 3. Connect the USB cable to the DJControl Inpulse T7
   controller and to the computer.
 4. Press the POWER button on the DJControl
   Inpulse T7 controller. The button is pushed in.
 5. Make sure that the speakers are powered off or, if
   they are connected to an external amplifier, that the
   amplifier is powered off. Connect the inputs of the
   active speakers to the Master outputs for speakers of
   the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller (2 x RCA or
   2 x XLR).
 6. Adjust the MASTER volume to the minimum level on
   the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller, then power on
   the speakers.
 7. Place the headphones around your neck (and not on
   your ears), then connect the headphones to the 1/8” /
   3.5 mm mini-jack connector or the ¼” / 6.35 mm jack
   connector.
 8. Connect the microphone to the Microphone input
   (optional).



                             46
                   Power supply
− Only use the power supply indicated in the user
  manual.
− Only use the power supply with the network voltage
  and frequency indicated on the power supply’s rating
  plate.



                         47
− It is possible to simultaneously use both output
  formats (XLR and RCA) — for example, by
  connecting an output pair to the PA system, and a
  second output pair to monitoring speakers.
− An LED illumination sequence, called Vegas Mode,
  starts up each time you connect the DJControl
  Inpulse T7 controller to your computer. Vegas Mode
  takes place in four phases, allowing it to light up all
  of the LEDs and display different possible colors on
  the pads and on the backlit rings of the BROWSER
  encoders.




                          48
Downloading the software

DJUCED

 1. Please visit: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Download and install DJUCED®.
 3. Please visit:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. Download and install the driver pack for your
   computer’s operating system.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows® requires that you install the drivers in
    order to use DJControl Inpulse T7 in ASIO mode,
    which reduces the latency compared to WASAPI
    mode and is generally more stable.
    The drivers also let you test your DJControl
    Inpulse T7 controller and verify the firmware version
    in both Windows® and macOS®.
 5. Launch the DJUCED software. A window appears,
   indicating that your DJControl Inpulse T7 controller
   has been successfully detected and is ready to use.




                          49
 When you run the software for the first time, DJUCED®
 guides you through connecting your headphones and
 active speakers (or lets you use the speakers built into
 your computer, if you don’t have external active
 speakers). Follow the on-screen information step by
 step before getting started.


Audio settings:
In DJUCED®, to modify the sound card settings, click the
gear wheel icon      in the upper right-hand part of the
screen. The Settings menu is displayed.
Select the Audio tab to choose the sound card, and assign
the outputs for headphones and speakers.


The standard setup for Windows® is as follows:
  − Audio device: DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output:
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                            50
The standard setup for macOS® is as follows:
  − Audio device: DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output:
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Please visit: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Download and install Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Please visit:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. Download and install the driver pack for your
   computer’s operating system.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows® requires that you install the drivers in
    order to use DJControl Inpulse T7 in ASIO mode,
    which reduces the latency compared to WASAPI
    mode and is generally more stable.
    The drivers also let you test your DJControl
    Inpulse T7 controller and verify the firmware version
    in both Windows® and macOS®.




                          52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 includes a license for
Serato DJ Lite, not a license for Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite can be used without any time limit.
If you install Serato DJ Pro instead of Serato DJ Lite,
Serato DJ Pro will work with your DJControl Inpulse T7
for the duration of a trial period. At the end of this trial
period, if you want to continue using Serato DJ Pro, you
must purchase a Serato DJ Pro license.




                            53
  5.     Livening up your mix
There are different ways to liven up your mix.



Modes and pads

The pads

In DJUCED, pads 1 to 8 carry out the actions
corresponding to the mode currently enabled.


In Serato DJ Lite, pads 1 to 4 carry out the actions
corresponding to the mode currently enabled. Pads 5 to 8
carry out the following actions:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (reverse playback)
  − Pad 6: rewind
  − Pad 7: fast forward
  − Pad 8: Censor. This action lets you play the track in
    reverse while the pad is held down. Once the pad is
    released, playback resumes from the point where the
    track would be if it had kept playing normally. This
    can be used to mask explicit language in a song.




                            54
The modes enabled on the pads vary according to the
software being used:


Modes DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1      Hot Cue        Hot Cue          Hot Cue

   2      Loop Roll     Auto Loop        Auto Loop
   3       Stems          Stems            Stems
   4      Sampler        Sampler          Sampler
   5      TonePlay          –             Pitch Play
   6       PadFX            –             Loop Roll
   7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop      Manual Loop
   8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks    Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro license not included.




                           55
Hot Cue mode

A Hot Cue point is a marker (like a bookmark) that you
can place in a track to easily locate this moment in the
track again, and instantly return to it afterwards.


In DJUCED, eight Hot Cue points can be set per track.


In Serato DJ Lite, four Hot Cue points can be set per track.
In Serato DJ Pro, eight Hot Cue points can be set per
track.


  1. To access Hot Cue mode, press HOT CUE 1. The
    HOT CUE 1 button’s light stays lit up.
  2. To set a Hot Cue point, press a pad.
  3. To play the track from a Hot Cue point, press the
    corresponding pad.
  4. To remove a Hot Cue point, press SHIFT and the pad
    at the same time.




                             56
Loop mode




 In DJUCED, this mode corresponds to Loop Roll
 mode. The deck playhead continues to advance in the
 background when you apply a loop. When you disable
 the loop, playback resumes from the point where the
 track would be if it had kept playing.
 In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, this mode
 corresponds to Auto Loop mode.


A loop is a part of the track that is played repeatedly.


  1. To access Loop mode, press LOOP 2. The LOOP 2
    button’s light stays lit up.


In DJUCED:
  2. To apply a loop, press and hold a pad.
  3. To disable a loop, release the corresponding pad.


In Serato DJ Lite:
  2. To apply a loop, press a pad.
  3. To disable a loop, press the corresponding pad.




                             57
Loop length:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2    DJUCED         Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1        1/16 of a beat       1 beat
       Pad 2         ⅛ of a beat        2 beats
       Pad 3         ¼ of a beat        4 beats
       Pad 4         ½ of a beat        8 beats
       Pad 5           1 beat              -
       Pad 6           2 beats             -
       Pad 7           4 beats             -
       Pad 8           8 beats             -




                      58
Stems mode

Stems mode lets you separate a track into four different
parts (vocals and instruments), called “stems”.


  1. To access Stems mode, press STEMS 3. The
    STEMS 3 button’s light stays lit up.
  2. Pads 1 to 4 are each associated with a stem. To stop
    playing a stem, press the corresponding pad. The
    pad’s light turns off.
  3. To   resume      playing     the   stem,     press   the
    corresponding pad. The pad lights up.


Stems:

      Deck 1 / Deck 2                      Stem

           Pad 1                          Vocals
           Pad 2                         Melody
           Pad 3                           Bass
           Pad 4                          Drums




                             59
When you enable stems in a track for the first time, the
separation is not always immediate. This may take a
few moments, while the DJ software analyzes the track
and generates the different parts (vocals, melody, bass,
drums).


You should remember to leave enough time between
the moment when you are separating the stems and the
moment when you are playing them. Once the different
parts for the stems have been generated, the playback
of the stems is instantaneous.


A powerful computer is required in order to use Stems
mode.




                          60
Sampler mode

A sample is a short sound played over the track that is
currently playing: it can be played either once (jingle) or in
repetition (loop).


In DJUCED, pads 1 to 8 let you play the eight samples
found on the first two lines of the multilayer sampler.
To display the multilayer sampler, select 2Decks
Horizontal + 2 Samplers in the drop-down menu in the
upper left-hand part of the screen in DJUCED.


In Serato DJ Lite, pads 1 to 4 let you play a sample.
To display the samples panel, click      in Serato DJ Lite.


  1. To access Sampler mode, press SAMPLER 4. The
    SAMPLER 4 button’s light stays lit up.
  2. To play a sample, press a pad.
  3. To stop playing a sample, press SHIFT and the
    corresponding pad at the same time.




                             61
Mode 5




 Serato DJ Lite does not feature mode 5 (TonePlay).
 Serato DJ Pro, in conjunction with the Pitch 'n Time
 plugin, offers a Pitch Play mode which works using the
 same principle as TonePlay mode.


In DJUCED, mode 5 corresponds to TonePlay mode.
This mode lets you replay a Hot Cue point in different
tones.


  1. Enable Hot Cue mode, then select a Hot Cue point.
  2. To access mode 5, press SHIFT and HOT CUE 1 at
    the same time. The HOT CUE 1 button flashes.
  3. To modify the tone of a Hot Cue point, press one of
    pads 2 to 8.
  4. To return to the original tone, press pad 1.




                            62
Modifying the tone:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2           Tone

          Pad 1             Original tone
          Pad 2                 +1
          Pad 3                 +2
          Pad 4                 +3
          Pad 5                  -1
          Pad 6                  -2
          Pad 7                  -3
          Pad 8                  -4




                       63
Mode 6




 Serato DJ Lite does not feature mode 6.


In DJUCED, mode 6 corresponds to PadFX mode. This
mode lets you control the effects in the effects rack using
the pads.
An effect is sometimes a filter or a combination of filters
applied to a track to modify its sound (echo, reverb…).


To display the effects rack, click   .


  1. To access mode 6, press SHIFT and LOOP 2 at the
    same time. The LOOP 2 button flashes.
  2. To carry out an action, press a pad.
  3. To disable an effect, press the corresponding pad
    (pad 1 to 3).




                            64
Possible actions:

 Deck 1 / Deck                 Effects

     Pad 1               Effect 1 of the rack
     Pad 2               Effect 2 of the rack
     Pad 3               Effect 3 of the rack
     Pad 4          Displays/hides the effects rack
     Pad 5           Changes effect 1 in the rack
     Pad 6           Changes effect 2 in the rack
     Pad 7           Changes effect 3 in the rack
     Pad 8                         -




                         65
Mode 7




 In DJUCED, mode 7 corresponds to Slicer Loop
 mode. In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, mode 7
 corresponds to Manual Loop mode.


In DJUCED, mode 7 corresponds to Slicer Loop mode.
This mode lets you slice the active loop into eight
sections.


  1. To access mode 7 (Slicer Loop), press SHIFT and
    STEMS 3 at the same time. The STEMS 3 button
    flashes.
  2. To play a section as a loop, press and hold a pad.
  3. To stop playing a section, release the corresponding
    pad.




                           66
In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, mode 7 corresponds
to Manual Loop mode. This mode lets you manually
enable a loop.


  1. To access mode 7 (Manual Loop), simultaneously
    press SHIFT and STEMS 3. The STEMS 3 button
    flashes.
  2. To carry out an action, press a pad.


Possible actions:

   Deck 1/2                         Effects

     Pad 1             First press: sets the in point (IN)
                    Second press: modifies the in point (IN)

     Pad 2           First press: sets the out point (OUT)
                    Second press: modifies the out point
                                     (OUT)

     Pad 3                Enables/disables the loop
     Pad 4          Moves the playhead to the start of the
                      loop and plays the loop (Reloop)

  AUTOLOOP          Increases/decreases the length of the
   encoder                            loop




                             67
Mode 8




 In DJUCED, mode 8 corresponds to BeatJump mode.
 In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, mode 8
 corresponds to Scratch Banks mode.


In DJUCED, mode 8 corresponds to BeatJump mode.
This mode lets you make a precise jump in the track.


  1. To access mode 8 (BeatJump), press SHIFT and
    SAMPLER 4 at the same time. The SAMPLER 4
    button flashes.
  2. To make a jump, press a pad.


Length of the jump:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                    Jump

          Pad 1                     Go back 1 beat
          Pad 2                 Go forward 1 beat
          Pad 3                  Go back 2 beats
          Pad 4                 Go forward 2 beats
          Pad 5                  Go back 4 beats
          Pad 6                 Go forward 4 beats
          Pad 7                  Go back 8 beats
          Pad 8                 Go forward 8 beats


                          68
In Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro, mode 8 corresponds
to Scratch Banks mode. This mode lets you instantly load
a scratch sample onto the deck to scratch on the
motorized platter in place of the track that’s currently
playing, and then quickly return to the track that’s
currently playing.
To display the scratch samples panel, click     in Serato
DJ Lite.


  1. To access mode 8 (Scratch Banks), press SHIFT and
    SAMPLER 4 at the same time. The SAMPLER 4
    button flashes.
  2. To play a scratch sample, press a pad.
  3. To stop playing a scratch sample and return to the
    track that had been playing previously, press SHIFT
    and the corresponding pad at the same time.


Samples:

      Deck 1 / Deck 2                 Sample

           Pad 1                       Ahh!
           Pad 2                     Hey You!
           Pad 3                       Oww!
           Pad 4                       Yeah!




                          69
Scratching
Scratching consists of producing a sound effect from a
track, by turning the motorized platter.


Place your index finger on top of the motorized platter and
make small, quick movements to the right and to the left.


You can repeat this scratch multiple times to create a
rhythm.




 − Before scratching or mixing, make sure that you have
   placed a felt slipmat between the motorized platter
   and the vinyl record.
 − When placing the vinyl record on the motorized
   platter, do not force it. You risk damaging the center
   of the vinyl record.




                            70
Filters
Adjustment of the track’s filter lets you attenuate certain
frequencies.


  − Attenuate the high frequencies (known as a low-pass
    filter or high-cut filter): turn the filter knob (FILTER) to
    the left.
  − Attenuate the low frequencies (known as a high-pass
    filter or low-cut filter): turn the filter knob (FILTER) to
    the right.




                             71
  6.    Multichannel sound card
The DJControl Inpulse T7 controller includes a built-in
multichannel sound card, allowing you to play your mix on
speakers for the audience (Master output for speakers),
monitor the next track that you’re preparing on your
headphones (headphones output), and use a microphone
and/or a device equipped with a line-level output as an
audio source.




                           72
Master output for speakers (output 1-2)
Your active speakers must be connected to one of the two
Master outputs for speakers located at the back of your
DJ controller.




 It is possible to simultaneously use both output formats
 — for example, by connecting an output pair to the PA
 system, and a second output pair to monitoring
 speakers.




                           73
Headphones output (output 3-4)
Your headphones must be connected to one of the two
headphones outputs        located at the front of your DJ
controller.




By default, each time your DJ controller is connected, the
headphones output is assigned to output 3-4 so that it can
work with all DJing software available on the market —
including DJUCED® and Serato DJ Lite, in particular.


However, if you wish to use your DJ controller’s
headphones output to listen to music on your computer
using iTunes, for example, you must route output 1-2 to
the headphones output. To do so, press the         button
located below the MASTER VU meter.



                           74
We do not recommend that you connect two pairs of
headphones at the same time (i.e. one to the 1/8” / 3.5
mm mini-jack output connector, and one to the ¼” / 6.35
mm jack output connector). If both pairs of headphones
do not have the same impedance, they will have
different output volumes.




                            75
Microphone input
Your microphone must be connected to the Microphone
input located at the back of your DJ controller. The
microphone input is balanced.




                          76
You   can   connect      a   balanced   or   unbalanced
microphone. A balanced microphone produces a
clearer, more powerful sound with less breathing
effects. If your balanced microphone is not connected
using a balanced cable, your microphone cable will
reduce your microphone’s sound quality.


                      Balanced cable

                Tip
               Ring

             Sleeve




                 Unbalanced cable


                Tip


             Sleeve




                             77
  7.       Compatibility

USB Audio / USB MIDI
This DJ controller is Plug & Play and can work without
drivers with DJUCED on any PC or Mac, as it complies
with the USB Audio and USB MIDI standards.



ASIO and Windows® control panel
To use the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller with Serato DJ
Lite, you must install the ASIO drivers. The ASIO drivers
are available here:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


If you are using DJUCED, you can also download the
ASIO drivers in order to take advantage of lower latency
on your PC.


The ASIO drivers come with a control panel accessible in
the      taskbar   on   PC,    or   in   the   C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\
directory. This panel lets you adjust the different ASIO
settings including the buffer sizes and the latency.




                              78
To adjust the ASIO settings:
  − Set the ASIO buffer size to 4 or 8 ms.
  − Start up your software (e.g.: DJUCED®) and select
     the DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) driver:




Once the software begins using the ASIO driver, the ASIO
settings can no longer be modified in the control panel.
This is perfectly normal, and indicates that the ASIO driver
is in use.




                            79
Use your software and listen carefully for any possible
glitches or artifacts in the audio (clicks, pops), or any
problems with the latency. Should glitches or artifacts
occur, you will need to increase the buffer size in order to
resolve the problems.


Close your software and adjust your ASIO buffer by one
value at a time:
  − Reduce the buffer size to reduce latency.
  − Increase the buffer size if you notice glitches or
    artifacts in the audio.


You will need to repeat this procedure until you find the
optimal buffer size for your system.


The drivers are available here:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                              80
Firmware update
Your DJ controller features an automatic firmware update
mode. This requires installing the Hercules drivers and
following the on-screen instructions. The firmware update
will occur automatically.


The drivers are available here:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


The control panel also allows you to access this
information and display the driver versions installed on
your computer in the ABOUT tab. Have this information
ready if you need to contact Hercules’ technical support.




                            81
Testing the DJ controller in the control
panel
In the ABOUT section of the DJControl Inpulse T7 control
panel, you can test your DJ controller’s sound, MIDI
controls and lighting, along with the motorized platters.


To access the control panel, go to the following directory:
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\.



       Audio test

To test whether the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller’s
audio interface is producing sound (without using DJ
software to do so), click the speaker icon. The icon turns
green during the test, and the program plays a sound on
the Master outputs for speakers and headphones.




                            82
       MIDI controls test

To test whether the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller’s
MIDI controls are working (without using DJ software to
do so), try using the buttons or other controls that you
want to test out. If the DIN connector icon turns green, this
means that the MIDI command is being received and the
button or other control is working properly.




                             83
       Lighting test

To test whether the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller’s
LEDs are working (without using DJ software to do so),
click the light bulb icon to light up the controller’s LEDs.
The icon turns green during the test, and the controller’s
LEDs light up.




 You can also light up all of the DJControl Inpulse T7
 controller’s LEDs by simultaneously pressing the IN
 and OUT buttons on both decks.




                            84
  4. Motorized platters test

To test whether the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller’s
motorized platters are working (without using DJ software
to do so), click the icon for platter 1 or 2. The icons for the
corresponding platter and the DIN connector turn green
during the test, and the motorized platter moves (i.e.
turns) on the controller.


Test of motorized platter number 1:




Test of motorized platter number 2:




                              85
  8.     Demo mode
This mode is available when you connect your DJ
controller to a power supply and a USB power supply
without a computer, and is used in-store, in particular. In
this case, the DJ controller is not operational but is in
demo mode: a demo sequence lighting up the controller’s
different lights keeps repeating itself.




                             86
  9.     FAQs

 1.      No sound is coming out of my
      headphones.
Make sure that you have connected your headphones at
the front of the DJ controller, as your DJ controller is
equipped with a multichannel sound card preconfigured
to work with DJUCED® and Serato DJ Lite.
By default, the two monitoring buttons are enabled when
the software is first launched. You can then select either
deck that you want to listen to on your headphones, or
press the        button located below the MASTER VU
meter to listen to the results of your mix.




                             87
  2.     The sound on my headphones is
    distorted or too low.
Make sure that your headphones feature a TRS
connector (standard headphones) and not a TRRS
connector (headphones + microphone).


              Tip                      Tip
            Ring                       Ring
                                       Ring
          Sleeve
                                       Sleeve




TRRS connectors are not compatible with the DJControl
Inpulse T7 controller.




                         88
  3.      No sound is coming out of my
    speakers.
Make sure that you have connected your speakers to the
RCA or XLR connectors at the back of the DJ controller,
as your DJ controller is equipped with a multichannel
sound card preconfigured to work with DJUCED® and
Serato DJ Lite.


In order to test (without using DJ software) whether the
audio interface of the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller is
producing sound, you can display the DJ controller’s
control panel. Click the ABOUT tab, and then click the
speaker icon. The icon turns green when sound is being
played.




                           89
 4.       No sound is coming out of my
      laptop computer speakers.
Your DJ controller is equipped with a preconfigured
multichannel sound card. If you want to use the speakers
built into your laptop computer:
  − In DJUCED®, access the settings and tick the SEND
      MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS option.




  − In Serato DJ Lite, access the settings, open the
      Audio tab and tick the Use Laptop Speakers option.




                            90
 5.       No sound is coming out of my
      headphones, or my laptop computer
      speakers.
By default, the sound comes from the Master output for
speakers, and the headphones output. It is therefore
normal that no sound is coming out of your laptop
computer.


If you want to use the speakers built into your laptop
computer:
  − In DJUCED®, access the settings and tick the SEND
      MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS option. You
      must connect your headphones to the DJControl
      Inpulse T7 controller.




                               91
  − In Serato DJ Lite, access the settings, open the
    Audio tab and tick the Use Laptop Speakers option.
    You must connect your headphones to the DJControl
    Inpulse T7 controller.




In order to test (without using DJ software) whether the
audio interface of the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller is
producing sound, you can display the DJ controller’s
control panel. Click the ABOUT tab, and then click the
speaker icon. The icon turns green when sound is being
played.




                             92
  6.     I’m experiencing sound quality
    problems with Windows®.

The volume of the track being played is too low

The master volume of the DJ software is independent of
the volume controls on the DJ controller. Therefore, as
long as the master volume of the DJ software is low, the
volume of the Master output will be low as well.

Check the volume of the DJ software and increase it if
necessary.

  − In DJUCED, use the volume button located in the
    bar in the upper right-hand part of the window.




  − In Serato DJ Lite, use the volume button located in
    the bar in the upper right-hand part of the window.




                           93
The volume on my headphones is too low

In Serato DJ Lite, access the settings, open the Audio tab
and untick (i.e. deselect) Use Laptop Speakers.




                           94
If you need to keep the Use Laptop Speakers box ticked
(i.e. selected), set the computer’s built-in sound card as
“Computer speakers”:
  1. Close the Serato DJ Lite software.
  2. Access the Windows settings and go to System and
    then Sound.
  3. Under Output, select the computer’s built-in sound
    card. Your DJ controller must no longer be set as the
    output.




Windows® may have set your DJ controller as the
Windows® sound card. If you keep this setting, the Use
Laptop Speakers setting can play the Master output on
your DJ controller’s 4-channel output (Master output +
headphones).




                           95
The sound isn’t clear

In DJUCED®:
We recommend that you use an ASIO audio device. With
a WASAPI device, the sound quality is generally good.
However, the latency may increase and the sound may
not be clear.


Access the settings, click on the Audio tab and select
DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) as the Audio device.




In Serato DJ Lite:
Access the settings, open the Audio tab and untick (i.e.
deselect) Use Laptop Speakers.




                          96
  7.      I can’t connect my multimedia
    speakers           to        my        DJControl
    Inpulse T7.
If your speakers’ connectors differ from the connectors on
the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller, you can use a dual
RCA to 1/8” / 3.5 mm mini-jack adapter (not included) to
connect multimedia speakers, a dual XLR to ¼” / 6.35 mm
jack adapter (not included) to connect PA speakers, or
any other adapter format corresponding to your speakers.
You can also connect your speakers to the headphones
output and route output 1-2 to output 3-4 by pressing the
       button located below the MASTER VU meter.



  8.      Is   the      DJControl         Inpulse T7
    controller compatible with an iPad or
    iPhone?
No, the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller is not compatible
with an iPad or iPhone. It only works with a PC or Mac.




                            97
  9.    How can I connect the DJControl
    Inpulse T7 controller to a USB-C
    port, or a Thunderbolt 3 port?
You can connect the DJControl Inpulse T7 controller to a
USB-C port or a Thunderbolt 3 port in three different
ways:
  − By using an adapter (USB-C [male] or Thunderbolt 3
    to USB-A [female]) between the computer and the DJ
    controller. Please note that some low-cost adapters
    will not work properly, as they cut off a part of the
    power supply.
  − By using a dock (USB-C or Thunderbolt 3) between
    the computer and the DJ controller. Make sure that
    the dock has a dedicated power supply, as a dock
    powered only via the USB-C or Thunderbolt 3 port
    may not have enough power.
  − By replacing the included USB cable with a USB-C
    or Thunderbolt 3 to USB-B 2.0 cable.




                          98
  TECHNICAL SUPPORT
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Trademarks
Intel® and Intel Core™ are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel
Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 is a registered trademark or trademark of
Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or in other countries.
Mac® and macOS® are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S.
and other countries.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite and Serato DJ Pro are registered trademarks of
Serato Audio Research Limited.
The DJUCED brand and DJUCED’s graphic elements are the property
of Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO is a trademark of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
All other trademarks and trade names are hereby acknowledged in this
document and are the property of their respective owners. Illustrations
not binding. Contents, designs and specifications in this document are
subject to change without notice and may vary from one country to
another.




                                   100
Copyright
No part of this manual may be reproduced, summarized, transmitted,
transcribed, stored in a retrieval system, or translated into any language
or computer language, in any form or by any means, electronic,
mechanical, magnetic, manual, via photocopying, recording, or other,
without the express written consent of Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                  101
DJUCED® and Serato DJ Lite End
User License Agreement
Please read the License Agreement displayed during installation of
DJUCED® and Serato DJ Lite carefully.




                                102
Manuel de l’utilisateur
           TABLE DES MATIÈRES


1.   CONTENU DE LA BOÎTE .............................. 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   CARACTÉRISTIQUES TECHNIQUES ........ 10

3.   FONCTIONS ................................................ 13

     Vue d’ensemble ..............................................13

     Platines (Decks) ..............................................14

     Mixage ..............................................................32

     Branchements.................................................43

4.   INSTALLATION ........................................... 46

     Branchements.................................................46

     Téléchargement des logiciels ......................49

5.   AGRÉMENTER SON MIX............................ 54

     Modes et pads.................................................54

     Le scratch ........................................................70

     Les filtres .........................................................71
6.   CARTE SON MULTICANAL........................ 72

     Sortie Master pour enceintes (sortie 1-2) ...73

     Sortie casque (sortie 3-4) ..............................74

     Entrée microphone ........................................76

7.   COMPATIBILITÉ ......................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB Midi ...................................78

     ASIO et panneau de contrôle Windows® ....78

     Mise à jour firmware ......................................81

     Tester le contrôleur DJ sur le panneau de

     contrôle ............................................................82

8.   MODE DÉMO ............................................... 86

9.   FAQ .............................................................. 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 est un contrôleur complet
destiné à vous aider à maîtriser l'art des platines vinyles
grâce à deux plateaux motorisés, des tutoriels vidéo et
l’intégration des logiciels DJUCED et Serato DJ Lite.




 Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 dispose d’une licence
 Serato DJ Lite, et non d’une licence Serato DJ Pro.
 Serato DJ Lite peut être utilisé sans limite de durée.
 Si vous installez Serato DJ Pro à la place de Serato DJ
 Lite, Serato DJ Pro fonctionnera avec le DJControl
 Inpulse T7 pendant une période d’essai. À la fin de
 cette période d’essai, si vous souhaitez continuer
 d’utiliser Serato DJ Pro, vous pourrez acheter une
 licence ou un abonnement Serato DJ Pro.



                            4
De nombreux tutoriels vidéo sont à votre disposition
pour apprendre à mixer avec le contrôleur Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7 :
  − Hercules DJ Academy (en anglais) :
        o Dans DJUCED, en cliquant sur l’icône   .
        o Sur le site DJUCED.
  − Chaîne YouTube Hercules Audio (en anglais).
  − The Dj Coach, cours dispensés par DJ Hapa sur
    Serato DJ Lite (en anglais).




                          5
 1.   Contenu de la boîte

DJControl Inpulse T7




                  6
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Deux disques vinyles de 17,8 cm (7″)
 − Deux feutrines standard
 − Câble USB
 − Câble d'alimentation amovible
 − Adaptateur secteur
 − Guide d'installation rapide
 − Flyer de garantie




Vous pouvez enlever les films de protection présents
sur les vumètres du contrôleur Hercules DJControl
Inpulse T7. Vous pouvez également les laisser, ils ne
gênent pas l’utilisation de l’instrument.




                            7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Deux disques vinyles de 17,8 cm (7″)
 − Deux feutrines standard
 − Deux feutrines fines
 − Câble USB
 − Câble d'alimentation amovible
 − Adaptateur secteur
 − Sac de transport
 − Guide d'installation rapide
 − Flyer de garantie




Vous pouvez enlever les films de protection présents
sur les vumètres du contrôleur Hercules DJControl
Inpulse T7 Premium Edition. Vous pouvez également
les laisser, ils ne gênent pas l’utilisation de l’instrument.




                             9
  2.      Caractéristiques techniques
Configuration requise :
  − DJUCED :
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (en anglais)
  − Serato DJ Lite :
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (en anglais)


Sorties audios :
           o Résolution = 24 bits
           o Fréquence d’échantillonnage = 44,1 kHz


Sorties Master pour enceintes (sortie 1-2) sur :
  − Deux connecteurs RCA :
           o Puissance max = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Deux connecteurs XLR (balancés) :
           o Puissance max = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Sortie casque (sortie 3-4) sur un connecteur mini-jack
3,5 mm et un connecteur jack 6,35 mm stéréo :
           o Puissance max = 5 dBU pour 32Ω @ 1 kHz


Entrée microphone sur un connecteur jack 6,35 mm
balancé



                            10
                 Bloc d’alimentation
− Utilisez uniquement le bloc d’alimentation listé dans
  le manuel de l’utilisateur.
− Utilisez le bloc d'alimentation uniquement avec la
  tension et la fréquence du réseau indiquées sur la
  plaque signalétique du bloc d'alimentation.




                           11
   Information relative au bloc d’alimentation
  Informations                    Valeur           Unité
    publiées
 Nom ou marque              GUILLEMOT
  du fabricant           CORPORATION S.A.
     Numéro            414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
   d'entreprise         2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
     Adresse                56910 Carentoir
                                  France
   Identifiant du          A481-1852590D
      modèle
 Tension d'entrée              100 - 240            V
  Fréquence AC                    50 - 60           Hz
     d'entrée
Tension de sortie                  18,5            V CC
Courant de sortie                  2,6              A
  Puissance de                     47,9             W
      sortie
 Efficacité active                 87,8             %
     moyenne
Efficacité en charge               87,8             %
    faible (10 %)
 Consommation                      0,10             W
 électrique sans
     charge




                             12
 3.     Fonctions

Vue d’ensemble




 1. Jog wheel
 2. Boutons de transport (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Commandes de boucles (Loop)
 4. Sélection     des     morceaux    (Browser,     Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Fader de tempo (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads et modes
 7. Modes de lecture
 8. Pré-écoute,        volumes   (Master,   Casque     et
      Microphone) et Beatmatch Guide
 9. Tranche de mixage (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixage (Crossfader, volume faders)
 11. Effets




                            13
Platines (Decks)

  1. Jog wheel




Feutrine : s'intercale entre le plateau motorisé et le
disque vinyle. Elle sert à protéger le disque vinyle des
frottements contre le plateau et à réduire les vibrations
lors de la lecture du disque.




 Vous devez toujours positionner la feutrine sur le
 plateau motorisé avant d’installer le disque vinyle.




                            14
Disque vinyle : permet de scratcher, accélérer ou ralentir
la lecture et se déplacer dans le morceau.
Le trait présent sur l’étiquette du disque vinyle est un
repère pour mixer et scratcher.


L’action réalisée dépend de deux critères :
  − morceau en cours de lecture ou sur pause ;
  − endroit où l’on touche le disque vinyle (sommet (top)
    ou couronne (ring)).


                           Sommet




 Couronne




                            15
Actions des disques vinyles avec Serato DJ Lite et Serato
DJ Pro :


Lecture / Pause Plateau motorisé           Touche SHIFT
     Lecture              Sommet                  -
                         Scratcher
                                              Maintenir
     Lecture        Sommet/Couronne
                                              appuyé
       Se déplacer rapidement dans le morceau
     Lecture             Couronne                 -
               Accélérer ou ralentir la lecture
     Pause          Sommet/Couronne               -
           Se déplacer lentement dans le morceau
                                              Maintenir
     Pause          Sommet/Couronne
                                              appuyé
       Se déplacer rapidement dans le morceau




                             16
Actions des disques vinyles avec DJUCED :


Lecture / Pause Plateau motorisé          Touche SHIFT
    Lecture              Sommet                  -
                        Scratcher
                                             Maintenir
    Lecture        Sommet/Couronne
                                             appuyé
       Se déplacer rapidement dans le morceau
    Lecture             Couronne                 -
              Accélérer ou ralentir la lecture
     Pause              Couronne                 -
       Se déplacer lentement dans le morceau




                            17
Plateau motorisé : entraîne le disque vinyle qui contrôle
la lecture du morceau et sa vitesse en fonction du tempo
défini avec le fader de tempo.


Lorsque la fonction Beatmatch Guide est activée, les
guides visuels BEAT ALIGN indiquent dans quel sens
vous devez tourner la couronne du plateau motorisé pour
aligner la grille des temps des deux morceaux. Lorsque
les deux flèches rouges s’éteignent, les grilles des temps
sont alignées.


Pour plus d’informations sur la fonction Beatmatch Guide,
veuillez consulter la section Beatmatch Guide.




 Il n’est pas possible de désactiver la motorisation des
 plateaux.




 − Lorsque le plateau motorisé tourne, évitez de le
   maintenir longuement arrêté avec votre main afin de
   ne pas endommager le système d'entraînement.
 − Lorsque vous placez le disque vinyle sur le plateau
   motorisé,     ne   forcez     pas.   Vous   risqueriez
   d’endommager le centre du disque vinyle.

                           18
  2. Boutons de transport




SHIFT : commande combinée. Par exemple :
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK) : verrouille la tonalité
    du morceau.
  − SHIFT + IN : dans DJUCED®, divise par deux la taille
    de la boucle active.


SYNC :    active    ou      désactive   la   synchronisation
automatique du BPM (battements par minute) des deux
morceaux.
  − SHIFT + SYNC :
      o Dans DJUCED : rend la platine maître de
         synchronisation (Master Sync).
      o Dans       Serato      DJ   Lite :   désactive    la
         synchronisation de la platine.




                              19
CUE : insère un point Cue sur le morceau pour identifier
un instant spécifique ou déplace la tête de lecture à
l’endroit du point Cue.
  − Morceau sur pause : insère un point Cue à l’endroit
    où est arrêté le morceau.
  − Morceau en cours de lecture : arrête la lecture du
    morceau et déplace la tête de lecture au point Cue.
      o Dans DJUCED, si aucun point Cue n’est défini,
         un appui sur CUE arrête la lecture et place un
         point Cue à l’emplacement de la tête de lecture.
      o Dans Serato DJ Lite, si aucun point Cue n’est
         défini, un appui sur CUE arrête la lecture et place
         un point Cue au début du morceau.
  − CUE + PLAY : déplace la tête de lecture au point Cue
    et lit le morceau à partir de ce marqueur.
  − SHIFT + CUE :
      o Dans DJUCED : déplace la tête de lecture au
         début du morceau et arrête la lecture.
      o Dans Serato DJ Lite : déplace la tête de lecture
         au début du morceau et lit le morceau.


Lecture/Pause : lit ou met en pause le morceau.
  − SHIFT + PLAY : dans Serato DJ Lite, déplace la tête
    de lecture au point Cue et lit le morceau à partir de
    ce marqueur.




                            20
  3. Commandes de boucles




Encodeur AUTOLOOP :
  − Appuyer sur l’encodeur : active ou désactive la
    lecture de la boucle.
  − Tourner l’encodeur : règle la longueur de la boucle.


IN/OUT : active une boucle en choisissant le point
d’entrée (IN) et le point de sortie (OUT).
Lorsque la boucle est active :
  − Appuyez sur IN (la touche clignote) et tournez le
    plateau motorisé pour déplacer le début de la boucle.
  − Appuyez sur OUT (la touche clignote) et tournez le
    plateau motorisé pour déplacer la fin de la boucle.
Pour   quitter   la   boucle,    appuyez     sur   l’encodeur
AUTOLOOP.
Dans DJUCED® :
  − SHIFT + IN : divise par deux la taille de la boucle
    active.
  − SHIFT + OUT : multiplie par deux la taille de la
    boucle active.
  − Appui long sur IN : active une boucle de quatre
    temps.
                            21
  4. Sélection des morceaux




Encodeur BROWSER* : parcourt votre bibliothèque
musicale et la liste des morceaux en tournant l'encodeur
vers la gauche (monter) ou la droite (descendre).
Appuyez sur l'encodeur pour sélectionner les dossiers et
chargez le morceau sélectionné sur la platine de
destination.


Bague lumineuse :
  − Dans DJUCED, affiche l’énergie du morceau maître
    du tempo.
  − Dans Serato DJ Lite, affiche le rythme. La lumière
    clignote en suivant le rythme du morceau :
           o Rouge : indique le 1er temps.
           o Bleu : indique les trois temps suivants.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.* :
  − Dans DJUCED, affiche le panneau de suggestion
    des meilleurs morceaux à mixer.
    Pour vous déplacer dans la liste des morceaux
    suggérés, tournez l’encodeur BROWSER.
    Pour   sélectionner   un    morceau,     appuyez   sur
    l’encodeur BROWSER. Le morceau déjà chargé sur
    cette platine doit être sur pause.
    Appuyez sur ASSIST./PREP et tournez l'encodeur
    pour ajuster l’énergie des morceaux suggérés.
  − Dans Serato DJ Lite, ajoute le morceau en cours de
    lecture à la liste Prepare (Préparer).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP : ouvre le panneau Prepare
    (Préparer).


BACK* : permet de se déplacer dans l’arborescence de
DJUCED et Serato DJ Lite.
  − Dans DJUCED, appuyez sur SHIFT et BACK pour
    revenir dans la colonne Bibliothèque.




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.
                         23
  5. Fader de tempo




Fader de tempo : règle la vitesse de lecture du morceau
en ajustant le nombre de BPM.
  − Déplacer vers le haut : ralentit le morceau.
  − Déplacer vers le bas : accélère le morceau.
  − Fader de tempo au milieu : vitesse originale du
     morceau. La LED blanche est allumée.


Lorsque la fonction Beatmatch Guide est activée, les
guides visuels TEMPO indiquent s’il faut monter ou
descendre le fader de tempo pour ralentir ou accélérer le
morceau. Lorsque les deux flèches rouges s’éteignent, le
tempo de la platine est identique à celui de l’autre platine.


Pour plus d’informations sur la fonction Beatmatch Guide,
veuillez consulter la section Beatmatch Guide.




                             24
Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, lorsque le mode
SYNC est activé, appuyer sur SHIFT et déplacer le fader
de tempo simultanément permet de déplacer les valeurs
du fader de tempo tout en conservant l’amplitude.


Par exemple, avec une échelle de tempo de ± 8 %, soit
16 % d’amplitude, on peut déplacer les valeurs du fader
de tempo pour couvrir de 0 % (maximum) à - 16 %
(minimum), ce qui fait toujours 16 % d’amplitude,
avec - 8 % au centre.




                          25
RANGE* : permet de changer l’échelle de tempo des
faders de tempo.
  − Dans DJUCED : ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %,
    ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − Dans Serato DJ Lite : ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK) : verrouille la tonalité du
morceau.
Pour vous assurer que la tonalité est verrouillée, appuyez
sur SHIFT. La touche RANGE est allumée.




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.
                           26
  6. Pads et modes




Touches de mode : permet d’activer jusqu’à huit modes.
Pour activer un mode principal, appuyez sur HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 ou SAMPLER 4.
Pour activer un mode secondaire (MODE 5, MODE 6,
MODE 7 et MODE 8), appuyez simultanément sur SHIFT
et HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 ou SAMPLER 4. La
touche de mode clignote.
Les modes activés sur les pads diffèrent selon le logiciel
utilisé.


Pour plus d’informations sur les différents modes avec
DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, veuillez
consulter la section Modes et pads.


Pads de performance : un pad effectue une action.




                           27
  7. Modes de lecture




INSTRUMENTAL : permet de lire uniquement les pistes
Mélodie, Basse et Batterie. Il s’agit d’un raccourci du
mode Stems.
  − Pour lire uniquement les pistes Mélodie, Basse et
    Batterie, appuyez sur INSTRUMENTAL. La touche
    s’allume.
  − Pour reprendre la lecture de toutes les pistes (Voix,
    Mélodie, Basse et Batterie), appuyez de nouveau sur
    la touche INSTRUMENTAL. La touche s’éteint.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL : active le mode Slip. Dans le
mode Slip, la tête de lecture continue d'avancer en
arrière-plan lorsque vous appliquez un effet ou une
boucle, placez un point Cue, ou lorsque vous utilisez les
plateaux motorisés. Lorsque vous arrêtez d’appliquer un
effet, la lecture reprend là où le morceau devrait se
trouver s’il avait continué d’être lu.
Pour vous assurer que le mode Slip est activé, appuyez
sur SHIFT. La touche INSTRUMENTAL est allumée.




 Serato DJ Lite ne dispose pas du mode Slip.
 Serato DJ Pro dispose du mode Slip.




                              29
VOCAL : permet de lire uniquement la piste Voix. Il s’agit
d’un raccourci du mode Stems.
  − Pour lire uniquement la piste Voix, appuyez sur
    VOCAL. La lumière s’allume.
  − Pour reprendre la lecture de toutes les pistes (Voix,
    Mélodie, Basse et Batterie), appuyez de nouveau sur
    la touche VOCAL. La touche s’éteint.


SHIFT + VOCAL : active le mode Quantification. La
quantification permet de déclencher une action sur le
prochain temps de la grille (lire le morceau, placer un
point Cue, lancer une boucle…).
Pour vous assurer que le mode Quantification est activé,
appuyez sur SHIFT. La touche VOCAL est allumée.




 Serato DJ Lite ne dispose pas du mode Quantification.
 Serato DJ Pro dispose du mode Quantification.




                           30
       (pitch bend -) /           (pitch bend +) : permet
d’aligner manuellement la grille des temps du morceau lu
sur cette platine avec la grille des temps de l’autre platine.
  − Restez      appuyé      sur              pour     ralentir
    momentanément la platine.
  − Restez      appuyé     sur             pour     accélérer
    momentanément la platine.




 Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +            et
 SHIFT +          permettent de régler des paramètres
 dans certains modes (Paramètres).




                             31
Mixage

  8. Pré-écoute, volume et Beatmatch Guide




Volume MIC : règle le volume du microphone.


Bague lumineuse MIC : indique le niveau du signal audio
(vumètre).
  − Éteint : il n’y a pas de signal audio.
  − Vert : le signal audio est diffusé.
  − Rouge : le signal audio est saturé.


Volume MASTER : règle le volume du mix joué dans les
enceintes.


Vumètre MASTER : affiche le niveau du signal audio de
la sortie Master RCA ou XLR pour enceintes.


                            32
Volume HEADPHONES :
 −        /       : ajuste le signal diffusé dans le casque,
     mélangeant la sortie Cue (pré-écoute des platines 1
     et 2) et la sortie Mix (sortie Master).
       o Pour      écouter    uniquement       la   pré-écoute,
         appuyez sur les touches Pré-écoute des
         platines 1 et 2. Les touches s’allument. Puis,
         positionnez le bouton sur Cue.
       o Pour écouter uniquement la sortie Master,
         appuyez sur la touche Pré-écoute Master. La
         touche s’allume. Puis, positionnez le bouton sur
         Mix pour régler le mélange diffusé dans le
         casque.
 −            : règle le volume de la sortie casque.




                              33
Pré-écoute : sélectionne la source sonore jouée dans le
casque.
  −          (situé en-dessous du vumètre MASTER) : joue
      le son du mix aussi diffusé au public.
  −        *   (situé   de   chaque   côté   de   la    touche
      BEATMATCH GUIDE) : joue le son de la platine 1 ou
      de la platine 2 lorsque le bouton Cue/Mix est sur
      Cue.
Dans Serato DJ Lite, appuyez sur SHIFT et              * (à côté
de la touche BEATMATCH GUIDE) pour modifier la grille
des temps du morceau lu sur cette platine. Pour quitter le
mode d’édition de la grille des temps, cliquez sur Edit Grid
(Éditer la grille).




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.
                         34
BEATMATCH GUIDE : active ou désactive les aides
lumineuses pour régler le tempo et aligner la grille des
temps des deux morceaux. Il y a quatre flèches rouges
par platine.




 DJUCED® définit l’une des platines comme maître de
 synchronisation (Master Sync) et l’autre comme platine
 esclave. Les flèches rouges s’allument uniquement sur
 la platine esclave, car cette platine suit le tempo de la
 platine maître de synchronisation.
 Serato DJ Lite ne définit pas de platine maître de
 synchronisation. Les flèches rouges s’allument sur les
 deux platines.




                            35
− Guides visuels TEMPO : si une des deux flèches
 rouges situées à côté d’un fader de tempo est
 allumée, cela signifie que le tempo (nombre de BPM)
 du morceau lu sur cette platine est différent de celui
 de l’autre platine.
 Les flèches indiquent dans quel sens vous devez
 déplacer le fader de tempo pour caler le tempo du
 morceau lu sur celui de l’autre platine.
        o Flèche du haut allumée : déplacez le fader
          de tempo vers le haut. Cela ralentit le
          tempo.
        o Flèche du bas allumée : déplacez le fader
          de tempo vers le bas. Cela accélère le
          tempo.
        o Flèches éteintes : le tempo de la platine est
          identique à celui de l’autre platine.




                        36
− Guides visuels BEAT ALIGN : si une des deux
 flèches rouges situées en dessous d’un plateau
 motorisé     est      allumée,   cela   signifie   que   les
 battements du morceau lu sur cette platine ne sont
 pas alignés sur ceux de l’autre platine.
 Les flèches indiquent dans quel sens vous devez
 tourner le plateau motorisé pour aligner les
 battements du morceau lu sur ceux de l'autre platine.
       o Flèche de gauche allumée : tournez le
            plateau motorisé dans le sens des aiguilles
            d’une montre. Cela accélère la vitesse de
            lecture.
       o Flèche de droite allumée : tournez le
            plateau motorisé dans le sens inverse des
            aiguilles d’une montre. Cela ralentit la
            lecture.
       o Flèches éteintes : les battements de la
            platine sont alignés sur ceux de l’autre
            platine.




                            37
  9. Tranche de mixage




GAIN* : règle le gain (le volume avant le fader de
volume).


Égalisation 3 bandes (EQ)* : contrôle l'intensité de l'EQ.
Un bouton est associé à chaque bande : HIGH, MID et
LOW.


Bouton de filtres FILTER* : ajuste la fréquence du
double filtre (passe-haut/passe-bas).




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.
                           38
  10.       Mixage




Vumètre : affiche le niveau du signal audio des platines 1
et 2.


Fader de volume* : règle le volume de la platine.


Crossfader : permet d’effectuer une transition entre deux
morceaux en augmentant le volume d'une des platines
tout en baissant le volume de l'autre.
  − Crossfader tout à gauche : on entend uniquement le
        morceau de la platine 1.
  − Crossfader tout à droite : on entend uniquement le
        morceau de la platine 2.
  − Crossfader au milieu : on entend simultanément les
        morceaux des platines 1 et 2.
                              39
Commutateur de courbe : permet de modifier la courbe
du crossfader.
  −       (mix) : mixage progressif des deux platines.
  −       (scratch) : mixage très rapide des deux platines.
  −        (désactivé) : crossfader désactivé, pour mixer
      uniquement avec les faders de volume.




 Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, vous pouvez
 modifier les paramètres du crossfader. Allez dans
 Paramètres, puis Mixer :
 − Power (Puissance) : courbe rapide pour le scratch.
 − Linear (Linéaire) : courbe progressive pour le mix.
 − Reverse : inverse le sens du crossfader, mode aussi
      appelé « Hamster ».




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.

                            40
  11.     Effets




Pour afficher le rack d’effets :
  − Dans DJUCED : appuyez sur              .
  − Dans Serato DJ Lite : appuyez sur            .


Touches d’effets       /   /     * : permet de sélectionner un
effet du rack d’effets. La touche s’allume.
Pour activer un effet, utilisez le levier de performance.
Pour modifier les effets associés aux touches          /   /   ,
sélectionnez un nouvel effet dans le rack d’effets. Dans
Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, vous pouvez également
appuyez sur SHIFT et        ,        ou   pour afficher la liste
des effets, puis appuyez de nouveau sur SHIFT et           ,   ,
ou      pour vous déplacer dans la liste et sélectionner le
nouvel effet.




 Dans Serato DJ Lite :
 − Il est possible de combiner plusieurs effets en même
     temps.


                                41
 − Les trois effets     /   /    de gauche s'appliquent sur
   la platine de gauche (Platine 1) et les trois effets        /
      /    de droite s'appliquent sur la platine de droite
   (Platine 2).
 Dans Serato DJ Pro, les deux groupes de trois touches
 d’effets s'appliquent sur les deux platines virtuelles.


Levier de performance* : permet d’activer un effet
chargé sur les touches      ,    , ou   . Il y a trois positions :
  − HOLD : active l’effet en continu tant que le levier est
    dans cette position.
  − ON : active l’effet momentanément tant que le levier
    est dans cette position.
  − Position centrale : effet désactivé.


Bouton DEPTH : règle l’intensité de l’effet.


Touches       /       : règle la durée du cycle de l’effet
synchronisé sur la musique.




 DJUCED ne dispose pas de cette fonctionnalité.




*Le comportement est identique sur les platines 1 et 2.

                                42
Branchements




  12.   Sortie Master pour enceintes (sortie 1-2)
  13.   Entrée microphone balancée
  14.   Port USB-B 2.0
  15.   Bouton POWER
  16.   Connecteur pour l’adaptateur secteur
  17.   Sortie casque (sortie 3-4)


Sortie Master pour enceintes (sortie 1-2) : permet de
brancher des enceintes actives.
Formats : 2 x RCA (Cinch) non-balancés et 2 x XLR
balancés.


Entrée microphone balancée : permet de brancher un
microphone balancé ou non-balancé.
Format : jack 6,35 mm.




                          43
Port USB-B 2.0 : permet de brancher le contrôleur à un
ordinateur.


Bouton POWER : permet d’allumer et d’éteindre le
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7.


Connecteur pour l’adaptateur secteur : permet de
connecter le câble d’alimentation et de brancher le
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 sur secteur grâce à
l’adaptateur.


Sortie casque (sortie 3-4) : permet de brancher un
casque pour la pré-écoute.
Formats : mini-jack 3,5 mm et jack 6,35 mm stéréo.




                             44
Dépliez les quatre pieds rétractables pour surélever le
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 et passer les câbles
dessous.




− Repliez les pieds avant de transporter le DJControl
  Inpulse T7.
− Repliez les pieds lorsque vous n’utilisez pas le
  DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Lorsque les pieds sont dépliés, n’appuyez pas sur le
  DJControl Inpulse T7 avec plus de 5 kg de poids /
  50 Newton de force.




                          45
 4.     Installation

Branchements
 1. Connectez     l’adaptateur   secteur   au   contrôleur
   DJControl Inpulse T7.
 2. Branchez le câble d’alimentation à l’adaptateur
   secteur puis à une prise secteur.
 3. Branchez le câble USB au contrôleur DJControl
   Inpulse T7 puis à l’ordinateur.
 4. Appuyez sur le bouton POWER du contrôleur
   DJControl Inpulse T7. Le bouton est enfoncé.
 5. Assurez-vous que les enceintes sont éteintes ou, si
   elles sont reliées à un amplificateur externe, que
   l’amplificateur est éteint. Reliez les entrées des
   enceintes actives aux sorties Master pour enceintes
   du DJControl Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA ou 2 x XLR).
 6. Réglez le volume MASTER au minimum sur le
   contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 puis allumer les
   enceintes.
 7. Mettez le casque autour de votre cou, et non sur vos
   oreilles, puis branchez-le au connecteur mini-jack
   3,5 mm ou jack 6,35 mm.
 8. Branchez le microphone à l’entrée Microphone
   (optionnel).




                           46
                 Bloc d’alimentation
− Utilisez uniquement le bloc d’alimentation listé dans
  le manuel de l’utilisateur.
− Utilisez le bloc d'alimentation uniquement avec la
  tension et la fréquence du réseau indiquées sur la
  plaque signalétique du bloc d'alimentation.


                           47
− Il est possible d’utiliser simultanément les deux
  formats de sortie, XLR et RCA, par exemple en
  branchant une paire de sortie vers la sonorisation et
  une seconde paire de sortie vers des enceintes de
  retour.
− Une séquence d’allumage des LEDs, appelée Vegas
  Mode, se déclenche à chaque branchement du
  contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 sur votre ordinateur.
  Le Vegas Mode se déroule en quatre phases
  permettant d’éclairer toutes les LEDs et d’afficher
  différentes couleurs possibles sur les pads et les
  bagues rétroéclairées des encodeurs BROWSER.




                         48
Téléchargement des logiciels

DJUCED

 1. Allez sur : https://www.djuced.com/hercules (en
   anglais).
 2. Téléchargez et installez DJUCED.
 3. Allez sur :
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (en anglais).
 4. Téléchargez et installez les packs de pilotes :
           o macOS® : HDJCSeries Mac
           o Windows® : HDJCSeries PC
    Windows® nécessite d’installer les pilotes pour
    utiliser le DJControl Inpulse T7 en mode ASIO, qui
    réduit la latence par rapport au mode WASAPI et est
    généralement plus stable.
    Les pilotes permettent également de tester le
    DJControl Inpulse T7 et de vérifier la version de
    firmware sous Windows® et macOS®.
 5. Ouvrez le logiciel DJUCED. Une fenêtre apparaît,
   indiquant que votre contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7
   est correctement détecté et prêt à fonctionner.




                            49
 Au premier lancement, DJUCED® vous guide dans la
 connexion du casque et des enceintes actives (ou du
 haut-parleur intégré à l’ordinateur si vous n’avez pas
 d’enceintes). Suivez pas à pas les informations à
 l’écran avant de démarrer.


Réglages audio :
Dans DJUCED®, pour modifier les réglages de carte son,
cliquez sur l’icône de roue d’engrenage     en haut à droite
de l’écran. Le menu Paramètres s’ouvre.
Sélectionnez l’onglet Audio pour choisir la carte son et
assigner les sorties casque et enceintes.


Le réglage standard sous Windows® est :
  − Audio Device (Périphérique audio) : DJControl
    Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Sortie) :
           o Master : Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones : Outputs 3&4




                           50
Le réglage standard sous macOS® est :
  − Audio Device (Périphérique audio) : DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Sortie) :
           o Master : Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones : Outputs 3&4




                         51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Allez   sur :   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads
   (en anglais).
 2. Téléchargez et installez Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Allez sur :
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (en anglais).
 4. Téléchargez et installez les packs de pilotes :
            o macOS® : HDJCSeries Mac
            o Windows® : HDJCSeries PC
    Windows® nécessite d’installer les pilotes pour
    utiliser le DJControl Inpulse T7 en mode ASIO, qui
    réduit la latence par rapport au mode WASAPI et est
    généralement plus stable.
    Les pilotes permettent également de tester le
    DJControl Inpulse T7 et de vérifier la version de
    firmware sous Windows® et macOS®.




                            52
Le DJControl Inpulse T7 dispose d’une licence Serato
DJ Lite, et non d’une licence Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite peut être utilisé sans limite de durée.
Si vous installez Serato DJ Pro à la place de Serato DJ
Lite, Serato DJ Pro fonctionnera avec le DJControl
Inpulse T7 pendant une période d’essai. À la fin de
cette période d’essai, si vous souhaitez continuer
d’utiliser Serato DJ Pro, vous pourrez acheter une
licence ou un abonnement Serato DJ Pro.




                           53
  5.     Agrémenter son mix
Différentes possibilités s’offrent à vous pour agrémenter
votre mix.



Modes et pads

Les pads

Dans DJUCED, les pads 1 à 8 effectuent les actions du
mode activé.


Dans Serato DJ Lite, les pads 1 à 4 effectuent les actions
du mode activé. Les pads 5 à 8 effectuent les actions
suivantes :
  − Pad 5 : Reverse (lecture à l’envers)
  − Pad 6 : retour rapide
  − Pad 7 : avance rapide
  − Pad 8 : Censor. Cette action permet de lire à l’envers
    le morceau lorsque le pad est maintenu enfoncé.
    Lorsque le pad est relâché, la lecture reprend là où
    le morceau devrait se trouver s’il avait continué d’être
    lu normalement. Ceci peut être utilisé pour couvrir un
    langage explicite dans une chanson.




                            54
Les modes activés sur les pads diffèrent selon le logiciel
utilisé :


Modes DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

    1        Hot Cue        Hot Cue         Hot Cue

    2       Loop Roll      Auto Loop       Auto Loop
    3         Stems          Stems           Stems
    4        Sampler        Sampler         Sampler
    5       TonePlay           –            Pitch Play
    6         PadFX            –            Loop Roll
    7       Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
    8       BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Licence Serato DJ Pro non incluse.




                              55
Mode Hot Cue

Un point Hot Cue est un repère, comme un signet ou un
marque-page, que vous pouvez placer dans un morceau
pour retrouver ce moment du morceau, et ensuite, y
accéder instantanément.


Dans DJUCED, huit points Hot Cue peuvent être définis
par morceau.


Dans Serato DJ Lite, quatre points Hot Cue peuvent être
définis par morceau.
Dans Serato DJ Pro, huit points Hot Cue peuvent être
définis par morceau.


  1. Pour accéder au mode Hot Cue, appuyez sur HOT
    CUE 1. La lumière de la touche HOT CUE 1 est fixe.
  2. Pour placer un point Hot Cue, appuyez sur un pad.
  3. Pour lire le morceau à partir d’un point Hot Cue,
    appuyez sur le pad correspondant.
  4. Pour supprimer un point Hot Cue, appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et le pad correspondant.




                          56
Mode Loop




 Dans DJUCED, ce mode correspond au mode Loop
 Roll. La tête de lecture continue d'avancer en arrière-
 plan lorsque vous appliquez une boucle. Lorsque vous
 désactivez la boucle, la lecture reprend là où le
 morceau devrait se trouver s’il avait continué d’être lu.
 Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, ce mode
 correspond au mode Auto Loop.


Une boucle, ou loop, est une partie du morceau qui est
jouée de manière répétée.


  1. Pour accéder au mode Loop, appuyez sur LOOP 2.
    La lumière de la touche LOOP 2 est fixe.


Dans DJUCED :
  2. Pour appliquer une boucle, restez appuyé sur un
    pad.
  3. Pour désactiver une boucle, relâchez le pad
    correspondant.


Dans Serato DJ Lite :
  2. Pour appliquer une boucle, appuyez sur un pad.
  3. Pour désactiver une boucle, appuyez sur le pad
    correspondant.
                            57
Longueur de la boucle :

Platine 1 / Platine 2      DJUCED        Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1              1/16 de temps      1 temps
       Pad 2              1/8 de temps       2 temps
       Pad 3              1/4 de temps       4 temps
       Pad 4               1/2 temps         8 temps
       Pad 5                1 temps             -
       Pad 6                2 temps             -
       Pad 7                4 temps             -
       Pad 8                8 temps             -




                            58
Mode Stems

Le mode Stems permet de séparer le morceau en quatre
pistes (voix et instruments).


  1. Pour accéder au mode Stems, appuyez sur
     STEMS 3. La lumière de la touche STEMS 3 est fixe.
  2. Les pads 1 à 4 sont chacun associés à une piste.
     Pour arrêter de lire une piste, appuyez sur le pad
     correspondant. Le pad s’éteint.
  3. Pour reprendre la lecture de la piste, appuyez sur le
     pad correspondant. Le pad s’allume.


Pistes :

    Platine 1 / Platine 2               Piste

           Pad 1                        Voix
           Pad 2                       Mélodie
           Pad 3                       Basse
           Pad 4                       Batterie




                            59
Lorsque vous activez des stems sur un morceau pour
la première fois, la séparation n’est pas toujours
immédiate. Elle peut prendre quelques instants, le
temps que le logiciel DJ analyse et génère les pistes
(voix, mélodie, basse, batterie).


Pensez à prévoir assez de temps entre le moment où
vous séparez les stems et le moment où vous les
diffusez. Une fois que les pistes sont générées, la
diffusion des stems est instantanée.


Un ordinateur puissant est nécessaire pour utiliser le
mode Stems.




                           60
Mode Sampler

Un échantillon, ou sample, est un bref son lu par-dessus
le morceau en cours de lecture et joué de façon unique
(jingle) ou répétée (boucle).


Dans DJUCED, les pads 1 à 8 permettent de jouer les
huit échantillons se trouvant sur les deux premières lignes
du sampler multicouche.
Pour afficher le sampler multicouche, sélectionnez
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers dans le menu déroulant
en haut à gauche dans DJUCED.


Dans Serato DJ Lite, les pads 1 à 4 permettent de jouer
un échantillon.
Pour afficher le panneau des échantillons, appuyez sur
dans Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Pour accéder au mode Sampler, appuyez sur
    SAMPLER 4. La lumière de la touche SAMPLER 4
    est fixe.
  2. Pour lire un échantillon, appuyez sur un pad.
  3. Pour arrêter de lire un échantillon, appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et le pad correspondant.




                            61
Mode 5




 Serato DJ Lite ne dispose pas du mode 5 (Toneplay).
 Serato DJ Pro, associé au plugin Pitch 'n Time, propose
 un mode Pitch Play fonctionnant sur le même principe
 que le mode Toneplay.


Dans DJUCED, le mode 5 correspond au mode
Toneplay. Ce mode permet de rejouer un point Hot Cue
dans des tonalités différentes.


  1. Activez le mode Hot Cue, puis sélectionnez un point
    Hot Cue.
  2. Pour accéder au mode 5, appuyez simultanément
    sur SHIFT et HOT CUE 1. La touche HOT CUE 1
    clignote.
  3. Pour modifier la tonalité d’un point Hot Cue, appuyez
    sur un des pads 2 à 8.
  4. Pour revenir à la tonalité d’origine, appuyez sur le
    pad 1.




                             62
Modification de la tonalité :

    Platine 1 / Platine 2                Tonalité

           Pad 1                     Tonalité d’origine
           Pad 2                            +1
           Pad 3                            +2
           Pad 4                            +3
           Pad 5                            -1
           Pad 6                            -2
           Pad 7                            -3
           Pad 8                            -4




                                63
Mode 6




 Serato DJ Lite ne dispose pas du mode 6.


Dans DJUCED, le mode 6 correspond au mode PadFX.
Ce mode permet de contrôler les effets du rack d’effets à
l’aide des pads.
Un effet est parfois un filtre ou une combinaison de filtres
appliqué à un morceau pour en modifier la sonorité (écho,
réverbération…).


Pour afficher le rack d’effets, cliquez sur   .


  1. Pour accéder au mode 6, appuyez simultanément
    sur SHIFT et LOOP 2. La touche LOOP 2 clignote.
  2. Pour effectuer une action, appuyez sur un pad.
  3. Pour désactiver un effet, appuyez sur le pad
    correspondant (pad 1 à 3).




                             64
Actions possibles :

  Platine 1 / 2                   Effets

     Pad 1                    Effet 1 du rack
     Pad 2                    Effet 2 du rack
     Pad 3                    Effet 3 du rack
     Pad 4            Affiche/Masque le rack d’effets
     Pad 5               Change l’effet 1 du rack
     Pad 6               Change l’effet 2 du rack
     Pad 7               Change l’effet 3 du rack
     Pad 8                           -




                           65
Mode 7




 Dans DJUCED, le mode 7 correspond au mode Slicer
 Loop. Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, le mode 7
 correspond au mode Manual Loop.


Dans DJUCED, le mode 7 correspond au mode Slicer
Loop. Ce mode permet de découper la boucle active en
huit sections.


  1. Pour accéder au mode 7 (Slicer Loop), appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et STEMS 3. La touche
    STEMS 3 clignote.
  2. Pour lire une section en boucle, restez appuyé sur un
    pad.
  3. Pour arrêter de lire une section, relâcher le pad
    correspondant.




                           66
Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, le mode 7
correspond au mode Manual Loop. Ce mode permet
d’activer manuellement une boucle.


  1. Pour accéder au mode 7 (Manual Loop), appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et STEMS 3. La touche
    STEMS 3 clignote.
  2. Pour effectuer une action, appuyez sur un pad.


Actions possibles :

Platine 1 / 2                     Effets

    Pad 1        1er appui : définit le point d’entrée (IN)
                2ème appui : modifie le point d’entrée (IN)

    Pad 2       1er appui : définit le point de sortie (OUT)
                  2ème appui : modifie le point de sortie
                                  (OUT)

    Pad 3               Active/Désactive la boucle
    Pad 4       Déplace la tête de lecture au début de la
                      boucle et lit la boucle (Reloop)
 Encodeur         Augmente/Diminue la longueur de la
AUTOLOOP                          boucle




                             67
Mode 8




 Dans DJUCED, le mode 8 correspond au mode
 BeatJump. Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, le
 mode 8 correspond au mode Scratch Banks.


Dans DJUCED, le mode 8 correspond au mode
BeatJump. Ce mode permet de faire un saut précis dans
le morceau.


  1. Pour accéder au mode 8 (BeatJump), appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et SAMPLER 4. La touche
    SAMPLER 4 clignote.
  2. Pour faire un saut, appuyez sur un pad.


Longueur du saut :

   Platine 1 / Platine 2               Saut

          Pad 1                  Recule d’1 temps
          Pad 2                  Avance d’1 temps
          Pad 3                 Recule de 2 temps
          Pad 4                 Avance de 2 temps
          Pad 5                 Recule de 4 temps
          Pad 6                 Avance de 4 temps
          Pad 7                 Recule de 8 temps
          Pad 8                 Avance de 8 temps
                           68
Dans Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro, le mode 8
correspond au mode Scratch Banks. Ce mode permet de
charger instantanément un échantillon de scratch sur la
piste pour scratcher sur le plateau motorisé à la place de
la piste en cours, et de revenir aussi rapidement sur la
piste en cours.
Pour afficher le panneau des échantillons de scratch,
appuyez sur       dans Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Pour accéder au mode 8 (Scratch Banks), appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et SAMPLER 4. La touche
    SAMPLER 4 clignote.
  2. Pour lire un échantillon de scratch, appuyez sur un
    pad.
  3. Pour arrêter de lire un échantillon de scratch et
    revenir à la piste lue précédemment, appuyez
    simultanément sur SHIFT et le pad correspondant.


Échantillons :

   Platine 1 / Platine 2                 Échantillon

           Pad 1                            Ahh!
           Pad 2                          Hey You!
           Pad 3                           Oww!
           Pad 4                           Yeah!




                             69
Le scratch
Le scratch consiste à produire un effet sonore à partir d’un
morceau en faisant tourner le plateau motorisé.


Posez votre index sur le sommet du plateau motorisé et
faites des petits mouvements rapides vers la droite et la
gauche.


Vous pouvez répéter ce scratch plusieurs fois à suivre
pour créer un rythme.




 − Avant de scratcher ou de mixer, vérifiez que vous
   avez bien placé une feutrine entre le plateau
   motorisé et le disque vinyle.
 − Lorsque vous placez le disque vinyle sur le plateau
   motorisé,    ne    forcez     pas.   Vous    risqueriez
   d’endommager le centre du disque vinyle.




                            70
Les filtres
Le   réglage   du   filtre   permet   d’atténuer   certaines
fréquences.


  − Atténuer les hautes fréquences (appelé filtre passe-
     bas ou filtre coupe-haut) : tournez le bouton de filtres
     FILTER vers la gauche.
  − Atténuer les basses fréquences (appelé filtre passe-
     haut ou filtre coupe-bas) : tournez le bouton de filtres
     FILTER vers la droite.




                              71
  6.     Carte son multicanal
Le contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 possède une carte
son multicanal intégrée afin de pouvoir diffuser votre mix
sur des enceintes pour le public (sortie Master pour
enceintes), pré-écouter le morceau suivant en cours de
préparation avec votre casque (sortie casque) et utiliser
un microphone et/ou un appareil doté d’une sortie en
niveau ligne comme source audio.




                           72
Sortie Master pour enceintes (sortie 1-2)
Vos enceintes actives doivent être branchées sur l’une
des deux sorties Master pour enceintes située à l’arrière
de votre contrôleur DJ.




 Il est possible d’utiliser simultanément les deux formats
 de sortie, par exemple en branchant une paire de sortie
 vers la sonorisation et une seconde paire de sortie vers
 des enceintes de retour.




                            73
Sortie casque (sortie 3-4)
Votre casque doit être branché sur l’une des deux sorties
casque           située sur    la face avant     de votre
contrôleur DJ.




Par   défaut,    à   chaque        branchement   de   votre
contrôleur DJ, la sortie casque est assignée à la sortie 3-4
afin de fonctionner dans tous les logiciels de DJing du
marché, notamment DJUCED® et Serato DJ Lite.


Cependant, si vous souhaitez utiliser la sortie casque de
votre contrôleur DJ pour écouter de la musique depuis
votre ordinateur avec iTunes, par exemple, vous devez
router la sortie 1-2 sur la sortie casque. Pour ce faire,
appuyez sur la touche                située en-dessous du
vumètre MASTER.
                              74
Il n’est pas recommandé de brancher deux casques en
même temps (un sur la sortie jack 3,5 mm, l’autre sur
la sortie jack 6,35 mm). Si les deux casques n’ont pas
la même impédance, ils auront des volumes de sortie
différents.




                         75
Entrée microphone
Votre microphone doit être branché sur l’entrée
Microphone   située   sur   la   face   arrière   de   votre
contrôleur DJ. L’entrée microphone est balancée.




                            76
Vous pouvez brancher un microphone balancé ou non-
balancé. Un microphone balancé offre un son plus clair,
plus puissant et moins de souffle. Si votre microphone
balancé n’est pas relié par un câble balancé, votre
câble microphone réduit sa qualité sonore.


                         Câble balancé

          Tip (Pointe)
        Ring (Anneau)

     Sleeve (Manchon)




                   Câble non-balancé


          Tip (Pointe)


     Sleeve (Manchon)




                              77
  7.     Compatibilité

USB Audio / USB Midi
Ce contrôleur DJ est Plug & Play et peut fonctionner sans
pilotes avec DJUCED sur tous les ordinateurs PC ou
Mac, car il respecte les normes USB Audio et USB Midi.



ASIO et panneau de contrôle Windows®
Pour utiliser le contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 avec
Serato DJ Lite, vous devez installer les pilotes ASIO. Les
pilotes ASIO sont disponibles ici :
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Si vous utilisez DJUCED, vous pouvez également
télécharger les pilotes ASIO pour bénéficier d’une latence
plus faible sur votre PC.


Les pilotes ASIO sont livrés avec un panneau de contrôle
accessible dans la barre des tâches sur PC ou dans le
répertoire C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\. Ce panneau permet de régler les
différents paramètres ASIO tels que les tailles de buffer
et la latence.




                            78
Pour régler les paramètres ASIO :
  − Définissez la taille du buffer ASIO sur 4 ou 8 ms.
  − Démarrez     votre   logiciel   (ex :   DJUCED®)     et
     sélectionnez le pilote DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
     (ASIO) :




Lorsque le logiciel prend la main sur le pilote ASIO, vous
remarquerez que les réglages ASIO ne sont plus
modifiables dans le panneau de contrôle. C’est tout à fait
normal, cela indique que le pilote ASIO est en cours
d’utilisation.




                           79
Utilisez votre logiciel et soyez attentif aux éventuels
artéfacts et coupures dans l’audio (clicks, pops) et à la
latence. S’ils se produisent, vous devrez augmenter la
taille de buffer en conséquence.


Fermez votre logiciel et ajustez votre buffer ASIO d’une
valeur à chaque fois :
  − Diminuez la taille du buffer pour diminuer la latence.
  − Augmentez la taille du buffer si vous avez des
     coupures ou artéfacts dans l’audio.


Vous devrez répéter cette opération jusqu’à trouver la
taille de buffer optimale pour votre système.


Les pilotes sont disponibles ici :
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Mise à jour firmware
Votre contrôleur DJ possède un mode de mise à jour
firmware automatique. Pour ce faire, il suffit d’installer les
pilotes Hercules et de suivre les instructions à l’écran. La
mise à jour firmware se fera automatiquement.


Les pilotes sont disponibles ici :
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Le panneau de contrôle permet également d’accéder à
cette information et affiche les versions de pilotes installés
sur votre ordinateur dans l’onglet ABOUT (À PROPOS).
Munissez-vous de ces informations si vous avez besoin
de contacter le support technique Hercules.




                             81
Tester le contrôleur DJ sur le panneau
de contrôle
Le panneau de contrôle du DJControl Inpulse T7 permet
de tester, dans la section ABOUT (À PROPOS), le son,
les commandes MIDI, l’éclairage de votre contrôleur DJ
et les plateaux motorisés.


Pour accéder au panneau de contrôle, allez dans le
répertoire C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\.



       Test audio

Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si l’interface audio du
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 produit du son, cliquez
sur l’icône de haut-parleur. L’icône devient verte pendant
le test et le programme diffuse un son sur les sorties
Master pour enceintes et casque.




                             82
      Test des commandes MIDI

Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si les commandes MIDI du
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 fonctionnent, actionnez
les boutons que vous souhaitez tester. Si l’icône du
connecteur DIN devient verte, cela signifie que la
commande MIDI est reçue et que le bouton fonctionne
correctement.




                          83
       Test lumineux

Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si les LEDs du contrôleur
DJControl Inpulse T7 fonctionnent, cliquez sur l’icône
d’ampoule pour allumer les LEDs du contrôleur. L’icône
devient verte pendant le test et les LEDs du contrôleur
sont allumées.




 Vous pouvez également allumer toutes les LEDs du
 contrôleur   DJControl    Inpulse T7   en    appuyant
 simultanément sur les touches IN et OUT des deux
 platines.




                           84
  4. Test des plateaux motorisés

Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si les plateaux motorisés
du contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 fonctionnent, cliquez
sur l’icône du plateau 1 ou 2. Les icônes du plateau
correspondant et du connecteur DIN deviennent vertes
pendant le test et le plateau motorisé tourne.


Test du plateau motorisé 1 :




Test du plateau motorisé 2 :




                           85
  8.    Mode Démo
Ce mode est disponible lorsque vous branchez votre
contrôleur DJ sur une alimentation secteur et une
alimentation USB sans ordinateur, et est notamment
utilisé en magasin. Dans ce cas, le contrôleur DJ n’est
pas fonctionnel, il se trouve en mode démonstration : une
séquence de démonstration d’éclairage des lumières
s’exécute perpétuellement.




                             86
  9.     FAQ

 1.      Aucun son ne sort de mon
      casque.
Vérifiez que vous avez branché votre casque sur la face
avant du contrôleur DJ, car votre contrôleur DJ est équipé
d’une carte son multicanal préconfigurée pour fonctionner
avec DJUCED® et Serato DJ Lite.
Par défaut, les deux touches de pré-écoute sont activées
au premier démarrage du logiciel. Vous pouvez ensuite
sélectionner l’une ou l’autre des platines que vous
souhaitez écouter dans votre casque ou appuyer sur la
touche        située en-dessous du vumètre MASTER
pour écouter le résultat de votre mix.




                            87
  2.     Le son du casque est distordu ou
    trop faible.
Vérifiez que le casque dispose d’un connecteur TRS
(casque standard) et non d’un connecteur TRRS
(casque + microphone).


       Tip (Pointe)                  Tip (Pointe)
    Ring (Anneau)                    Ring (Anneau)
                                     Ring (Anneau)
 Sleeve (Manchon)
                                     Sleeve (Manchon)




Les connecteurs TRRS ne sont pas compatibles avec le
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7.




                          88
  3.       Aucun son ne sort de mes
    enceintes.
Vérifiez que vous avez branché vos enceintes sur les
connecteurs RCA ou XLR à l’arrière du contrôleur DJ, car
votre contrôleur DJ est équipé d’une carte son multicanal
préconfigurée pour fonctionner avec DJUCED® et Serato
DJ Lite.


Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si l’interface audio du
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 produit du son, vous
pouvez afficher le panneau de contrôle du contrôleur DJ.
Cliquez sur l’onglet ABOUT (À PROPOS), puis cliquez
sur l’icône de haut-parleur. L’icône devient verte pendant
que du son est diffusé.




                           89
 4.       Aucun son ne sort des enceintes
      de mon ordinateur portable.
Votre contrôleur DJ est équipé d’une carte son multicanal
préconfigurée. Si vous souhaitez utiliser les enceintes
intégrées de votre ordinateur portable :
  − Dans DJUCED®, accédez aux paramètres et cochez
      l’option     SEND   MASTER      TO     COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (ENVOYER LE SIGNAL MASTER
      VERS LES ENCEINTES DE L’ORDINATEUR).




  − Dans Serato DJ Lite, accédez aux paramètres,
      ouvrez l’onglet Audio (Audio) et cochez Use Laptop
      Speakers (Utiliser les haut-parleurs de l’ordinateur
      portable).




                            90
 5.       Aucun son ne sort de mon casque
      ni des enceintes de mon ordinateur
      portable.
Par défaut, le son sort par la sortie Master pour enceintes
et la sortie casque. Il est donc normal qu’aucun son ne
sorte de votre ordinateur portable.


Si vous souhaitez utiliser les enceintes intégrées de votre
ordinateur portable :
  − Dans DJUCED®, accédez aux paramètres et cochez
      l’option    SEND      MASTER      TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (ENVOYER LE SIGNAL MASTER
      VERS LES ENCEINTES DE L’ORDINATEUR). Vous
      devez      brancher   votre   casque   au   contrôleur
      DJControl Inpulse T7.




                              91
  − Dans Serato DJ Lite, accédez aux paramètres,
    ouvrez l’onglet Audio (Audio) et cochez Use Laptop
    Speakers (Utiliser les haut-parleurs de l’ordinateur
    portable). Vous devez brancher votre casque au
    contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7.




Pour tester hors du logiciel DJ si l’interface audio du
contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 produit du son, vous
pouvez afficher le panneau de contrôle du contrôleur DJ.
Cliquez sur l’onglet ABOUT (À PROPOS), puis cliquez
sur l’icône de haut-parleur. L’icône devient verte pendant
que du son est diffusé.




                           92
  6.      J’ai des problèmes de qualité
     sonore avec Windows®.

Le volume de la piste lue est trop faible

Le volume global du logiciel DJ est indépendant des
boutons de volume du contrôleur DJ. Ainsi, tant que le
volume global du logiciel DJ est faible, le volume de la
sortie Master est faible.


Vérifiez le volume du logiciel DJ et augmentez-le si
besoin.


  − Dans DJUCED, utilisez le bouton de volume situé
     dans la barre en haut à droite de la fenêtre.




  − Dans Serato DJ Lite, utilisez le bouton de volume
     situé dans la barre en haut à droite de la fenêtre.




                            93
Le volume du casque est trop faible

Dans Serato DJ Lite, accédez aux paramètres, ouvrez
l’onglet Audio (Audio) et décochez Use Laptop Speakers
(Utiliser les haut-parleurs de l’ordinateur portable).




                             94
Si vous devez garder la case Use Laptop Speakers
(Utiliser les haut-parleurs de l’ordinateur portable)
cochée, définissez la carte son intégrée de l’ordinateur
comme « Haut-parleurs de l’ordinateur » :
  1. Fermez le logiciel Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Accédez aux paramètres Windows et allez dans
    Système puis Son.
  3. Dans Sortie, sélectionnez la carte son intégrée de
    l’ordinateur. Votre contrôleur DJ ne doit plus être
    définit comme sortie.




Windows peut avoir configuré votre contrôleur DJ en tant
que carte son Windows. Si vous conservez ce réglage,
le paramètre Use Laptop Speakers (Utiliser les haut-
parleurs de l’ordinateur portable) peut lire la sortie Master
dans la sortie 4 canaux de votre contrôleur DJ (sortie
Master + casque).




                             95
Le son n’est pas clair

Dans DJUCED® :
Nous vous recommandons d’utiliser un périphérique
audio ASIO. Avec un périphérique WASAPI, la qualité du
son est généralement correcte. Cependant, la latence
peut augmenter et le son peut ne pas être clair.


Accédez aux paramètres, cliquez sur l’onglet Audio puis
sélectionnez DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) dans
Périphérique audio.




Dans Serato DJ Lite :
Accédez aux paramètres, ouvrez l’onglet Audio (Audio) et
décochez Use Laptop Speakers (Utiliser les haut-parleurs
de l’ordinateur portable).




                             96
  7.     Je ne peux pas connecter mes
    enceintes         multimédias          sur     mon
    contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7.
Si la connectique de vos enceintes diffère de celle du
DJControl Inpulse T7, vous pouvez utiliser un adaptateur
double RCA vers mini-jack 3,5 mm (non fourni) pour
brancher des enceintes multimédias, un adaptateur
double XLR vers jack 6,35 mm (non fourni) pour brancher
des enceintes de sonorisation ou tout autre format
correspondant à vos enceintes.
Vous pouvez également brancher vos enceintes sur la
sortie casque et router la sortie 1-2 sur la sortie 3-4 en
appuyant sur la touche            située en-dessous du
vumètre MASTER.



  8.     Le         contrôleur             DJControl
    Inpulse T7 est-il compatible avec un
    iPad ou un iPhone ?
Non, le contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7 n’est pas
compatible avec un iPad ou un iPhone. Il fonctionne
uniquement sur PC ou Mac.




                           97
  9.     Comment brancher le contrôleur
    DJControl Inpulse T7 sur un port
    USB-C ou un port Thunderbolt 3 ?
Vous pouvez brancher le contrôleur DJControl Inpulse T7
sur un port USB-C ou Thunderbolt 3 de trois façons :
  − En intercalant entre l’ordinateur et le contrôleur DJ un
    adaptateur USB-C mâle ou Thunderbolt 3 vers
    USB-A femelle. Attention, certains adaptateurs
    premier prix ne fonctionnent pas, car ils coupent une
    partie de l’alimentation électrique.
  − En intercalant un dock USB-C ou Thunderbolt 3 entre
    l’ordinateur et le contrôleur DJ. Vérifiez que le dock
    possède une alimentation dédiée, car un dock
    alimenté   uniquement     par   le     port   USB-C   ou
    Thunderbolt 3 peut être trop faiblement alimenté.
  − En remplaçant le câble USB inclus par un câble
    USB-C ou Thunderbolt 3 vers USB-B 2.0.




                            98
  SUPPORT TECHNIQUE
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Marques commerciales
Intel® et Intel Core™ sont des marques ou marques déposées d’Intel
Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 est une marque commerciale déposée ou
une marque commerciale de Microsoft Corporation aux États-Unis et/ou
dans d’autres pays.
Mac® et macOS® sont des marques commerciales d’Apple Inc.,
déposées aux États-Unis et dans d’autres pays.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite et Serato DJ Pro sont des marques déposées de
Serato Audio Research Limited.
La marque DJUCED et les éléments graphiques DJUCED sont la
propriété de Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO est une marque de Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Toutes les autres marques commerciales et tous les autres noms
commerciaux sont dûment respectés dans le présent document et restent
la propriété de leurs propriétaires respectifs. Les illustrations ne sont pas
contractuelles. Le contenu, les illustrations et les spécifications du
présent document pourront être modifiés sans notification préalable et
peuvent varier d'un pays à l'autre.




                                      100
Copyright
Aucune partie de ce manuel ne peut être reproduite, résumée, transmise,
transcrite, stockée dans un système de recherche, ou traduite en toute
langue ou langage informatique, à quelque fin ou par quelque moyen que
ce soit, électronique, mécanique, magnétique, manuel, par le biais de
photocopies, d’enregistrements, ou autres, sans l’autorisation expresse
et écrite de Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                  101
Contrat de licence utilisateur final
applicable aux logiciels DJUCED® et
Serato DJ Lite
Veuillez lire attentivement le Contrat de licence qui s’affiche lors de
l’installation de DJUCED® et de Serato DJ Lite.




                                  102
Benutzerhandbuch
            INHALTSVERZEICHNIS

1.   VERPACKUNGSINHALT .............................. 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TECHNISCHE DATEN................................. 10

3.   FUNKTIONEN .............................................. 13

     Überblick..........................................................13

     Decks................................................................14

     Mixen ................................................................32

     Anschlüsse......................................................43

4.   INSTALLATION ........................................... 46

     Anschlüsse......................................................46

     Herunterladen der Software .........................49

5.   DEN EIGENEN MIX LEBENDIGER

     MACHEN ...................................................... 54

     Modi und Pads ................................................54

     Scratchen.........................................................70

     Filter..................................................................71
6.   MEHRKANAL-SOUNDKARTE.................... 72

     Master-Ausgang für Lautsprecher

     (Ausgang 1-2)..................................................73

     Kopfhörerausgang (Ausgang 3-4) ...............74

     Mikrofoneingang ............................................76

7.   KOMPATIBILITÄT ....................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO und Windows®-Kontrollpanel .............78

     Aktualisierung der Firmware ........................81

     Testen des DJ-Controllers im

     Kontrollpanel...................................................82

8.   DEMO-MODUS ............................................ 86

9.   FAQS............................................................ 87
Der   Hercules       DJControl       Inpulse T7    ist   ein   voll
ausgestatteter Controller, der Sie auf dem Weg zur
Beherrschung der Kunst des Auflegens mit Vinyl
unterstützt.   Dafür     sorgen        zwei   motorbetriebene
Plattenteller, Video-Tutorials und die Integration der
Software DJUCED und Serato DJ Lite.




 Der Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 enthält eine Lizenz
 für Serato DJ Lite, aber keine Lizenz für Serato DJ Pro.
 Serato DJ Lite kann ohne zeitliche Begrenzung
 genutzt werden.
 Wenn Sie Serato DJ Pro anstelle von Serato DJ Lite
 installieren, wird Serato DJ Pro mit Ihrem DJControl
 Inpulse T7    für      die   Dauer        einer     Testphase
 funktionieren. Wenn Sie Serato DJ Pro nach Ablauf
 dieses Testzeitraums weiterhin verwenden möchten,
 müssen Sie eine Lizenz für Serato DJ Pro erwerben.



                                 4
Es steht Ihnen eine große Auswahl an Video-Tutorials
zur Verfügung, die Ihnen helfen, das Mixen mit dem
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller zu erlernen:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (in Englisch):
        o In DJUCED, indem Sie auf das Symbol
          klicken.
        o Auf der DJUCED-Website.
  − Der    Hercules    Audio        YouTube-Kanal   (in
    Englisch).
  − The DJ Coach, mit Kursen von DJ HAPA über
    Serato DJ Lite (in Englisch).




                          5
 1.    Verpackungsinhalt

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Zwei Vinyl-Schallplatten (17,8 cm)
 − Zwei Slipmats aus Filz
 − Geflochtenes USB-Kabel
 − Abnehmbares Netzkabel
 − Netzadapter
 − Benutzerhandbuch
 − Garantie-Broschüre




                            6
Sie können die Schutzfolie über dem VU-Meter des
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller entfernen.
Sie können die Schutzfolie aber auch an ihrer Stelle
lassen, da sie die Verwendung des VU-Meters nicht
beeinträchtigt.




                         7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Zwei Vinyl-Schallplatten (17,8 cm)
 − Zwei Slipmats aus Filz
 − Geflochtenes USB-Kabel
 − Abnehmbares Netzkabel
 − Netzadapter
 − Tragetasche
 − Benutzerhandbuch
 − Garantie-Broschüre




Sie können die Schutzfolie über dem VU-Meter des
Hercules   DJControl    Inpulse T7    Premium   Edition
Controller entfernen. Sie können die Schutzfolie aber
auch an ihrer Stelle lassen, da sie die Verwendung
des VU-Meters nicht beeinträchtigt.




                            9
  2.    Technische Daten
Systemanforderungen:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (in Englisch)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (in Englisch)

Audio-Ausgänge:
           o Auflösung = 24 Bit
           o Abtastrate = 44,1 kHz

Master-Ausgänge für Lautsprecher (Ausgang 1-2) über:
  − Zwei RCA-Anschlüsse:
           o Maximale Ausgangsleistung = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Zwei XLR-Anschlüsse (symmetrisch):
           o Maximale     Ausgangsleistung        =    13 dBU
             @ 1 kΩ

Kopfhörer-Ausgang (Ausgang 3-4) über einen 3,5-mm-
Stereo-Miniklinken-Anschluss        und   einen       6,35-mm-
Stereo-Klinken-Anschluss:
           o Maximale Ausgangsleistung = 5 dBU für
             32Ω @ 1 kHz

Mikrofon-Eingang      über        einen   6,35-mm-Klinken-
Anschluss (symmetrisch)



                             10
               Stromversorgung
− Verwenden Sie nur das im Benutzerhandbuch
 angegebene Netzteil.
− Verwenden Sie das Netzteil nur mit der auf dem
 Typenschild    des      Netzteils   angegebenen
 Netzspannung und Frequenz.




                        11
            Informationen zum Netzteil
  Veröffentlichte               Wert           Einheit
  Informationen
 Name oder Marke           GUILLEMOT
  des Herstellers       CORPORATION S.A.
  Unternehmens-         414 196 758 R.C.S.
     Nummer                  Vannes
     Adresse           2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                          56910 Carentoir
                                France
  Modellkennung           A481-1852590D
Eingangsspannung             100 - 240           V
Eingangswechselstr              50 - 60          Hz
    omfrequenz
Ausgangsspannung                 18,5          V DC
  Ausgangsstrom                  2,6             A
 Ausgangsleistung                47,9            W
 Durchschnittlicher              87,8            %
      aktiver
  Wirkungsgrad
 Wirkungsgrad bei                87,8            %
geringer Last (10 %)
Leistungsaufnahme                0,10            W
    im Leerlauf




                           12
 3.     Funktionen

Überblick




 1. Motorbetriebener Plattenteller
 2. Transporttasten (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Loop-Steuerung (Loop)
 4. Regler für die Trackauswahl (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempo-Fader (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads und Modi
 7. Wiedergabemodi
 8. Monitoring, Lautstärke (Master, Kopfhörer und
      Mikrofon) und Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mix-Bereich (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mischpult (Crossfader, Lautstärkefader)
 11. Effekte




                         13
Decks

  1. Motorbetriebener Plattenteller




Filz-Slipmat: wird zwischen dem motorbetriebenen
Plattenteller und der Vinyl-Platte platziert. Sie schützt die
Vinyl-Platte vor der Reibung am Plattenteller und
reduziert die Vibrationen beim Abspielen der Platte.




 Achten Sie darauf, dass Sie die Filz-Slipmat immer
 auf den motorbetriebenen Plattenteller legen, bevor
 Sie die Vinyl-Platte auflegen.




                             14
Vinyl-Schallplatte: Hiermit können Sie scratchen, die
Wiedergabe beschleunigen oder verlangsamen und sich
innerhalb des Tracks bewegen.
Die Linie auf dem Label der Vinyl-Platte ist ein
Bezugspunkt (d.h. eine Markierung) für das Mixen und
Scratchen.


Welche Aktion ausgeführt wird, hängt von zwei Kriterien
ab:
  − der Track wird abgespielt oder pausiert;
  − die Stelle, an der Sie die Vinyl-Platte berühren
      (Oben (top) oder Ring (ring)).


                            Oben




       Ring




                             15
Aktionen der Vinyl-Platte mit Serato DJ Lite und Serato
DJ Pro:


                        Motobetriebener
 Wiedergabe/Pause                          SHIFT-Taste
                         Plattenteller
     Wiedergabe               Oben               -
                         Scratchen
                                             Gedrückt
     Wiedergabe             Oben/Ring
                                              halten
          Schnelles Navigieren innerhalb des Tracks
     Wiedergabe                  Ring            -
     Wiedergabe beschleunigen oder verlangsamen
          Pause             Oben/Ring            -
      Langsames Navigieren innerhalb des Tracks
                                             Gedrückt
          Pause             Oben/Ring
                                              halten
          Schnelles Navigieren innerhalb des Tracks




                            16
Aktionen der Vinyl-Platte mit DJUCED:


                     Motobetriebener
 Wiedergabe/Pause                        SHIFT-Taste
                      Plattenteller
     Wiedergabe             Top               -
                      Scratchen
                                          Gedrückt
     Wiedergabe         Oben/Ring
                                           halten
       Schnelles Navigieren innerhalb des Tracks
     Wiedergabe            Ring               -
     Wiedergabe beschleunigen oder verlangsamen
       Pause               Ring               -
      Langsames Navigieren innerhalb des Tracks




                         17
Motobetriebener Plattenteller: bewegt die Vinyl-Platte,
die die Wiedergabe und die Geschwindigkeit des Tracks
entsprechend dem mit dem Tempo-Fader eingestellten
Tempo steuert.


Wenn die Beatmatch Guide-Funktion aktiviert ist, zeigen
die BEAT ALIGN-Pfeile die Richtung an, in die Sie den
Ring (d. h. die Seite) des motorbetriebenen Plattentellers
drehen müssen, um die Beatgrids der beiden Tracks
auszurichten. Wenn die beiden roten Pfeile nicht
aufleuchten, sind die Beatgrids aufeinander abgestimmt.
Weitere Informationen über die Beatmatch Guide-
Funktion finden Sie im Abschnitt Beatmatch Guide.




Die Motorisierung der Plattenteller kann nicht deaktiviert
werden.




 − Wenn sich die motorbetriebene Platte dreht, sollten
   Sie es vermeiden, diese lange mit der Hand
   anzuhalten,    damit     das   Antriebssystem       nicht
   beschädigt wird.
 − Beim    Auflegen   der   Vinyl-Schallplatte   auf    den
   motorbetriebenen Plattenteller sollten Sie keine
   Gewalt anwenden. Sie könnten die Mitte der Vinyl-
   Schallplatte beschädigen.
                            18
  2. Transport-Tasten




SHIFT: kombinierte Steuerung. Zum Beispiel:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): sperrt die Tonart des
    Tracks.
  − SHIFT + IN: teilt in DJUCED® die Größe des aktiven
    Loops durch zwei.


SYNC: aktiviert oder deaktiviert die automatische
Synchronisierung der BPM-Werte (Beats pro Minute)
von zwei Tracks.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o In DJUCED: macht das Deck zum Master-
        Synchronisationsdeck (Master Sync).
      o In    Serato    DJ    Lite:   deaktiviert   die
        Synchronisation auf dem Deck.




                         19
CUE: fügt einen Cue-Punkt in den Track ein, um einen
bestimmten Zeitpunkt zu identifizieren, oder verschiebt die
Fortschrittsanzeige an die Position des Cue-Punkts.
  − Track wird angehalten: Fügt einen Cue -Punkt an der
    Stelle ein, an der der Track angehalten wurde.
  − Track wird wiedergegeben: Die Wiedergabe des Tracks
    wird gestoppt und die Fortschrittsanzeige wird zum Cue
    -Punkt bewegt.
      o Wenn in DJUCED kein Cue-Punkt definiert
         wurde,   wird   durch   Drücken    von      CUE   die
         Wiedergabe gestoppt und ein Cue-Punkt an der
         Position der Fortschrittsanzeige gesetzt.
      o Wenn in Serato DJ Lite kein Cue-Punkt definiert
         wurde,   wird   durch   Drücken    von      CUE   die
         Wiedergabe gestoppt und ein Cue-Punkt am
         Anfang des Tracks platziert.
  − CUE + PLAY: verschiebt die Fortschrittsanzeige zum
    Cue-Punkt und gibt den Track ab diesem Punkt wieder.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o Bewegt in DJUCED die Fortschrittsanzeige an den
         Anfang des Tracks und stoppt die Wiedergabe.
      o Bewegt in Serato DJ Lite die Fortschrittsanzeige an
         den Anfang des Tracks und startet die Wiedergabe.


Wiedergabe/Pause: Wiedergabe oder Pause des Tracks.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: verschiebt in Serato DJ Lite die
    Fortschrittsanzeige zum CUE-Punkt und gibt den Track
    ab diesem Punkt wieder.

                            20
  3. Loop-Steuerung




AUTOLOOP-Encoder:
  − Drücken des Encoders: aktiviert oder deaktiviert die
    Wiedergabe des Loops.
  − Drehen des Encoders: passt die Länge des Loops an.


IN/OUT: aktiviert einen Loop durch Auswahl des In-
Punktes (IN) und des Out-Punktes (OUT).
Wenn der Loop eingeschaltet ist (d.h. aktiviert):
  − Drücken Sie IN (die Taste blinkt) und drehen Sie den
    motorbetriebenen Plattenteller, um den Startpunkt
    des Loops zu verschieben.
  − Drücken Sie OUT (die Taste blinkt) und drehen Sie
    den motorbetriebenen Plattenteller, um das Ende des
    Loops zu verschieben.
Zum Verlassen des Loops drücken Sie den AUTOLOOP-
Encoder.
In DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: teilt die Größe des aktiven Loops durch
    zwei.
  − SHIFT + OUT: verdoppelt die Größe des aktiven Loops.
  − Langes Drücken auf IN: aktiviert einen Loop von vier
    Beats.
                             21
  4. Regler für die Trackauswahl




BROWSER-Encoder*: Hiermit können Sie durch Ihre
Musikbibliothek und die Liste der Tracks scrollen, indem
Sie den Encoder nach links (nach oben) oder nach
rechts (nach unten) drehen.
Drücken Sie den Encoder, um Ordner auszuwählen und
den ausgewählten Track auf das Zieldeck zu laden.


Beleuchteter Ring:
  − Zeigt in DJUCED® den Energiepegel des Master-
    Tracks für das Tempo an.
  − Zeigt in Serato DJ Lite den Rhythmus an. Das Licht
    blinkt zum Beat des Tracks:
           o Rot: zeigt den ersten Beat an.
           o Blau: zeigt die drei folgenden Beats an.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − In DJUCED wird die Liste mit den besten
    kommenden Tracks für Ihren Mix angezeigt.
    Um durch die Liste der vorgeschlagenen Tracks zu
    scrollen, drehen Sie den BROWSER-Encoder.
    Um einen Track auszuwählen, drücken Sie den
    BROWSER-Encoder. Der bereits auf diesem Deck
    geladene Track muss pausiert werden.
  − Drücken Sie ASSIST./PREP. und drehen Sie den
    Encoder,       um      den      Energiepegel       der
    vorgeschlagenen Tracks einzustellen.
  − Fügt in Serato DJ Lite den aktuell gespielten Track
    zur Prepare (Vorbereiten)-Liste hinzu.
  − SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: öffnet das Prepare
    (Vorbereiten)-Fenster.


BACK*:        Hiermit   können       Sie     durch     die
Verzeichnisstruktur in DJUCED und Serato DJ Lite
navigieren.
  − Drücken Sie in DJUCED SHIFT und BACK, um zur
    Spalte Bibliothek zurückzukehren.




* Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.
                              23
  5. Tempo-Fader




Tempo-Fader: legt die Wiedergabegeschwindigkeit des
Tracks fest, indem die Anzahl der BPM eingestellt wird.
  − Aufwärts bewegen: beschleunigt den Track.
  − Abwärts bewegen: verlangsamt den Track.
  − Tempo-Fader         in        der    Mitte:      die
    Originalgeschwindigkeit des Tracks. Die weiße LED
    leuchtet.


Wenn die Funktion Beatmatch Guide aktiviert ist, zeigen
die visuellen TEMPO-Anzeigen an, ob Sie den Tempo-
Fader nach oben oder unten bewegen müssen, um den
Track zu verlangsamen oder zu beschleunigen. Wenn
die beiden roten Pfeile nicht aufleuchten, ist das Tempo
auf diesem Deck identisch mit dem Tempo auf dem
anderen Deck.


Weitere Informationen über die Beatmatch Guide-
Funktion finden Sie im Abschnitt Beatmatch Guide.


                             24
Wenn in Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro der Sync-
Modus aktiviert ist, können Sie durch gleichzeitiges
Drücken von SHIFT und dem Verschieben des Tempo-
Faders die Werte des Tempo-Faders unter Beibehaltung
der Amplitude verändern.


Zum Beispiel können Sie bei einer Temposkala im
Amplituden-Bereich von ±8 % oder 16 % die Werte des
Tempo-Faders so verschieben, dass sie von 0 %
(Maximum) bis -16 % (Minimum) reichen, was immer
noch eine Amplitude von 16 % ergibt, mit -8 % in der
Mitte.




                           25
RANGE*: Hiermit verändern Sie die Temposkala des
Tempo-Faders.
  − In    DJUCED:    ± 6 %,     ± 8 %,   ± 10 %,   ± 12 %,
    ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − In Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): sperrt die Tonart des
Tracks.
Um sicherzustellen, dass die Tonart gesperrt ist,
drücken Sie SHIFT. Die Taste RANGE leuchtet auf.




* Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.
                            26
  6. Pads und Modi




Modus-Tasten: ermöglichen die Aktivierung von bis zu
acht Modi.
Um einen Hauptmodus zu aktivieren, drücken Sie HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 oder SAMPLER 4.
Um einen Sekundärmodus (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7
und MODE 8) zu aktivieren, drücken Sie gleichzeitig
SHIFT und HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 oder
SAMPLER 4. Die Modus-Taste blinkt.
Die auf den Pads aktivierten Modi variieren je nach
verwendeter Software.


Für weitere Informationen über die verschiedenen Modi
mit DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro lesen
Sie bitte den Abschnitt Modi und Pads.


Performance-Pads: ein Pad führt eine Aktion aus.




                         27
  7. Playback-Modi




INSTRUMENTAL: Hiermit können Sie nur die Melodie-,
Bass- und Schlagzeugteile eines Tracks abspielen. Dies
ist eine Abkürzung für den Stems-Modus.
  − Um nur die Melodie-, Bass- und Schlagzeug-Parts
    eines Tracks wiederzugeben, drücken Sie die
    INSTRUMENTAL-Taste. Die Taste leuchtet auf.
  − Um die Wiedergabe aller Parts eines Tracks
    (Gesang,    Melodie,    Bass      und        Schlagzeug)
    fortzusetzen,    drücken       Sie       erneut      die
    INSTRUMENTAL-Taste.         Das      Licht   der   Taste
    erlischt.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: aktiviert den Slip-Modus. Im
Slip-Modus läuft die Fortschrittsanzeige des Decks im
Hintergrund weiter, wenn Sie einen Effekt oder einen
Loop anwenden, einen Cue-Punkt setzen oder die
motorisierten Plattenteller verwenden. Wenn Sie einen
Effekt nicht mehr anwenden, wird die Wiedergabe an
dem Punkt fortgesetzt, an dem sich der Track befinden
würde, wenn er weiter abgespielt worden wäre.
Um sicherzustellen, dass der Slip-Modus aktiviert ist,
drücken Sie SHIFT. Die Taste INSTRUMENTAL leuchtet
auf.




Serato DJ Lite verfügt nicht über den Slip-Modus.
Serato DJ Pro verfügt über den Slip-Modus.




                          29
VOCAL: Hiermit können Sie nur den Gesangsteil eines
Tracks wiedergeben. Dies ist eine Abkürzung für den
Stems-Modus.
  − Um      nur    den       Gesangsteil      eines    Tracks
    wiederzugeben, drücken Sie die VOCAL-Taste. Die
    Taste leuchtet auf.
  − Um die Wiedergabe aller Parts eines Tracks
    (Gesang,      Melodie,     Bass    und      Schlagzeug)
    fortzusetzen, drücken Sie erneut die VOCAL-Taste.
    Das Licht der Taste erlischt.


SHIFT + VOCAL: aktiviert den Quantisierungsmodus.
Mit der Quantisierung können Sie eine Aktion auf den
nächsten Beat im Grid anwenden (den Track abspielen,
einen Cue-Punkt setzen, einen Loop starten ...).
Drücken Sie SHIFT, um sicherzustellen, dass der
Quantisierungsmodus aktiviert ist. Die VOCAL-Taste
leuchtet auf.




Serato     DJ     Lite    verfügt     nicht     über    den
Quantisierungsmodus.
Serato DJ Pro verfügt über den Quantisierungsmodus.




                              30
     (pitch bend -) /      (pitch bend +): Hiermit können
Sie das Beatgrid des auf diesem Deck gespielten Tracks
manuell an das Beatgrid des anderen Decks anpassen.
  − Halten Sie die Taste          gedrückt, um das Deck
    kurzzeitig zu verlangsamen.
  − Halten Sie die Taste          gedrückt, um das Deck
    kurzzeitig zu beschleunigen.




 In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro können Sie mit
 SHIFT +        und SHIFT +         die Einstellungen in
 bestimmten Modi anpassen (Einstellungen).




                           31
Mixen

  8. Monitoring, Lautstärke und Beatmatch Guide




MIC-Lautstärke: regelt die Lautstärke des Mikrofons.


Beleuchteter    Ring    MIC:    zeigt     den   Pegel    des
Audiosignals an (VU-Meter).
  − Aus: Es liegt kein Audiosignal vor.
  − Grün: Das Audiosignal wird wiedergegeben.
  − Rot: Das Audiosignal ist übersteuert.


MASTER-Lautstärke: regelt die Lautstärke des Mixes,
der über Ihre Lautsprecher wiedergegeben wird.


MASTER-VU-Meter: zeigt den Pegel des Audiosignals
des   Master-Ausgangs     (RCA     oder     XLR)   für   die
Lautsprecher an.
                           32
HEADPHONES-Lautstärke:
 −        /            : stellt das Signal ein, das auf Ihrem
     Kopfhörer wiedergegeben wird, und mischt den
     Cue-Ausgang (Monitoring der Decks 1 und 2) und
     den Mix-Ausgang (Master-Ausgang).
       o Um nur das Monitoring zu hören, drücken Sie
         die Monitoring-Tasten für die Decks 1 und 2.
         Die Tasten leuchten auf. Stellen Sie dann den
         Drehknopf auf Cue.
     o Um nur den Master-Ausgang zu hören, drücken
       Sie       die    Master-Monitoring-Taste.   Die   Taste
       leuchtet auf. Stellen Sie dann den Regler auf Mix,
       um den Mix für Ihre Kopfhörer einzustellen.
 −           :         regelt     die     Lautstärke      des
     Kopfhörerausgangs.




                                 33
Monitoring: wählt die Tonquelle aus, die über Ihren
Kopfhörer wiedergegeben wird.
  −         (befindet sich unter dem MASTER-VU-Meter):
      spielt den Sound des Mixes laut für das Publikum
      ab.
  −         *   (befindet   sich   auf   beiden   Seiten   der
      BEATMATCH GUIDE-Taste): gibt den Sound von
      Deck 1 oder Deck 2 wieder, wenn die Cue/Mix-
      Taste auf Cue eingestellt ist.
Drücken Sie in Serato DJ Lite SHIFT und              * (neben
der BEATMATCH GUIDE-Taste), um das Beatgrid des
auf diesem Deck gespielten Tracks zu ändern. Um den
Beatgrid-Bearbeitungsmodus zu verlassen, klicken Sie
auf Edit Grid (Grid bearbeiten).




*Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.
                             34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: aktiviert oder deaktiviert die
Lichtführungen zur Anpassung des Tempos und zum
Angleichen der Beatgrids der beiden Tracks. Es gibt vier
rote Pfeile pro Deck.




DJUCED® definiert eines der Decks als Master-
Synchronisationsdeck (Master Sync) und das andere
als Slave-Deck. Die roten Pfeile leuchten nur auf dem
Slave-Deck auf, da dieses Deck dem Tempo des
Master-Synchronisationsdecks folgt.
Serato      DJ      Lite   definiert   kein    Master-
Synchronisationsdeck. Die roten Pfeile leuchten auf
beiden Decks auf.




                           35
− TEMPO-Lichtführung: Einer der beiden roten Pfeile
  rechts von jedem der beiden Tempo-Fader kann
  aufleuchten. Dies bedeutet, dass sich das Tempo
  (d. h. die Anzahl der Beats pro Minute) des auf
  diesem Deck gespielten Tracks vom Tempo des
  anderen Decks unterscheidet.
        o Der obere Pfeil leuchtet: Bewegen Sie den
          Tempo-Fader nach oben. Dadurch wird
          das Tempo verlangsamt.
        o Unterer Pfeil leuchtet: Bewegen Sie den
          Tempo-Fader nach unten. Dadurch wird
          das Tempo beschleunigt.
        o Pfeile leuchten nicht: Das Tempo des
          Decks ist identisch mit dem Tempo des
          Master-Synchronisationsdecks.




                       36
− BEAT ALIGN-Lichtführungen: Es kann einer der
 beiden roten Pfeile unter einem motorbetriebenen
 Plattenteller aufleuchten. Dies bedeutet, dass die
 Beats des Tracks, der auf diesem Deck abgespielt
 wird, nicht mit den Beats des anderen Decks
 übereinstimmen.
 Die Pfeile zeigen die Richtung an, in die Sie den
 motorbetriebenen Plattenteller drehen müssen, um
 die Beats des gespielten Tracks mit den Beats des
 anderen Decks auszurichten.
       o Linker Pfeil leuchtet: Drehen Sie den
         motorbetriebenen      Plattenteller    im
         Uhrzeigersinn.     Dadurch     wird    die
         Wiedergabegeschwindigkeit erhöht.
       o Rechter Pfeil leuchtet: Drehen Sie den
         motorbetriebenen Plattenteller gegen den
         Uhrzeigersinn.     Dadurch     wird    die
         Wiedergabegeschwindigkeit verlangsamt.
       o Pfeile leuchten nicht: Die Beats des Decks
         stimmen mit den Beats des anderen Decks
         überein.




                      37
  9. Mix-Bereich




GAIN-Regler*: regelt die Eingangsverstärkung (d.h. den
Lautstärkepegel vor dem Lautstärkefader).


3-Band-Equalizer (EQ)*: regelt die Intensität des EQs.
Jedem Band ist ein Drehknopf zugeordnet: HIGH, MID
und LOW.


FILTER-Regler*: regelt die Frequenz des Doppelfilters
(Hochpass und Tiefpass).




*Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.
                             38
  10.      Mixer




VU-Meter: zeigt den Pegel des Audiosignals der Decks
1 und 2.


Lautstärke-Fader*: regelt die Lautstärke des Decks.


Crossfader: ermöglicht einen Übergang zwischen zwei
Tracks, indem die Lautstärke eines der Decks erhöht
wird, während die Lautstärke des anderen Decks
verringert wird.
  − Crossfader ganz nach links: Sie hören nur den
     Track auf Deck 1.
  − Crossfader ganz nach rechts: Sie hören nur den
     Track auf Deck 2.
  − Crossfader in der Mitte: Sie hören die Tracks auf
     den Decks 1 und 2 gleichzeitig.
                          39
Kurvenschalter: Hiermit können Sie die Crossfader-
Kurve verändern.
  −       (mix): progressives Mixen der beiden Decks.
  −       (scratch): sehr schnelles Mixen der beiden
      Decks.
  −        (deaktiviert): Crossfader deaktiviert, um nur
      über die Lautstärke-Fader zu mixen.




In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro können Sie die
Crossfader-Einstellungen     ändern.   Gehen     Sie    zu
Einstellungen, dann Mixer:
 − Power (Leistung): schnelle Kurve für Scratching.
 − Linear (Linear): progressive Kurve zum Mixen.
 − Reverse (Umgekehrt): Kehrt die Richtung des
   Crossfaders um, auch bekannt als "Hamster"-
   Modus.




*Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.

                           40
  11.    Effekte




So können Sie den Effekte-Bereich anzeigen:
  − Klicken Sie in DJUCED auf            .
  − Klicken Sie in Serato DJ Lite auf         .

Effekte-Tasten        /   /       *: Hiermit können Sie einen
Effekt aus dem Effekte-Bereich auswählen. Die Taste
leuchtet auf.
Um einen Effekt zu aktivieren, verwenden Sie den
Performance-Hebel.
Um die mit den Tasten         /      /   verbundenen Effekte
zu ändern, wählen Sie einen neuen Effekt im Effekte-
Bereich. In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro können Sie
auch SHIFT und        ,   oder       drücken, um die Liste der
Effekte anzuzeigen, und dann SHIFT und            ,   oder
erneut drücken, um die Liste zu durchsuchen und den
neuen Effekt auszuwählen.




 In Serato DJ Lite:
 − Es ist möglich, mehrere Effekte gleichzeitig zu
   kombinieren.
                              41
 − Die drei Effekte       /    /       auf der linken Seite
   gelten für das linke Deck (Deck 1), und die drei
   Effekte     /    /    auf der rechten Seite gelten für
   das rechte Deck (Deck 2).
 In Serato DJ Pro gelten die beiden Gruppen der drei
 Effekt-Tasten für die beiden virtuellen Decks.


Performance-Hebel*: Hiermit können Sie einen Effekt
aktivieren, der auf den Tasten     ,     oder     geladen ist.
Es gibt drei verschiedene Positionen:
  − HOLD: aktiviert den Effekt dauerhaft, solange sich
      der Hebel in dieser Position befindet.
  − ON: aktiviert den Effekt kurzzeitig, solange sich der
      Hebel in dieser Position befindet.
  − Mittelstellung: Der Effekt ist deaktiviert.


DEPTH-Regler: regelt die Intensität des Effekts.


  /     -Tasten: passen die Zykluslänge des mit der
Musik synchronisierten Effekts an.




DJUCED enthält diese Funktion nicht.




*Die Funktionalität ist auf den Decks 1 und 2 identisch.
                             42
Anschlüsse




  12.     Master-Ausgang für Lautsprecher (Ausgang 1-2)
  13.     Symmetrischer Mikrofoneingang
  14.     USB-B 2.0-Anschluss
  15.     POWER-Taste
  16.     Anschluss für Netzadapter
  17.     Kopfhörerausgang (Ausgang 3-4)


Master-Ausgang für Lautsprecher (Ausgang 1-2):
ermöglicht den Anschluss aktiver Lautsprecher.
Format:     2 x asymmetrisch     RCA      (Cinch)    und
2 x symmetrisch XLR.


Symmetrischer Mikrofoneingang: Sie können ein
symmetrisches      oder    asymmetrisches        Mikrofon
anschließen.
Format: 6,35-mm-Klinke.


                           43
USB-B 2.0-Anschluss: ermöglicht den Anschluss des
Controllers an einen Computer.


POWER-Taste: schaltet den DJControl Inpulse T7
Controller ein und aus.


Anschluss für Netzadapter: ermöglicht den Anschluss
des Netzkabels und den Anschluss des DJControl
Inpulse T7 Controllers an eine Steckdose mit Hilfe des
Adapters.


Kopfhörerausgang (Ausgang 3-4): ermöglicht den
Anschluss von Kopfhörern zum Abhören von Titeln.
Format: 3,5-mm-Stereo-Miniklinke und 6,35-mm-Stereo-
Klinke.




                          44
Fahren Sie die vier einklappbaren Füße aus, um den
DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller zu erhöhen und die
Kabel darunter zu verlegen.




− Klappen Sie die Füße ein, bevor Sie den DJControl
  Inpulse T7 Controller transportieren.
− Klappen Sie die Füße ein, wenn Sie den DJControl
  Inpulse T7 Controller nicht verwenden.
− Wenn die Füße ausgeklappt sind, drücken Sie nicht
  mit mehr als 5 kg / 50 Newton auf den DJControl
  Inpulse T7 Controller.




                           45
 4.    Installation

Anschlüsse
 1. Schließen Sie den Netzadapter an den DJControl
   Inpulse T7 Controller an.
 2. Schließen Sie das Netzkabel an den Netzadapter
   an, und stecken Sie es in eine Steckdose.
 3. Verbinden Sie den DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller
   und den Computer mit dem USB-Kabel.
 4. Drücken Sie die POWER-Taste am DJControl
   Inpulse T7 Controller. Die Taste bleibt eingerastet.
 5. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass die Lautsprecher
   ausgeschaltet sind oder, wenn sie an einen
   externen Verstärker angeschlossen sind, dass der
   Verstärker ausgeschaltet ist. Verbinden Sie die
   Eingänge der aktiven Lautsprecher mit den Master-
   Ausgängen für Lautsprecher des DJControl Inpulse
   T7 Controllers (2 x RCA oder 2 x XLR).
 6. Stellen Sie die MASTER-Lautstärke am DJControl
   Inpulse T7 Controller auf den Mindestpegel ein, und
   schalten Sie dann die Lautsprecher ein.
 7. Legen Sie den Kopfhörer um den Hals (und nicht
   auf die Ohren), und schließen Sie den Kopfhörer an
   den 3,5-mm-Miniklinkenanschluss oder den 6,35-
   mm-Klinkenanschluss an.
 8. Schließen    Sie    das     Mikrofon     an     den
   Mikrofoneingang an (optional).

                         46
               Stromversorgung
− Verwenden Sie nur das im Benutzerhandbuch
 angegebene Netzteil.
− Verwenden Sie das Netzteil nur mit der auf dem
 Typenschild    des     Netzteils   angegebenen
 Netzspannung und Frequenz.



                        47
− Es ist möglich, beide Ausgangsformate (XLR und
 RCA) gleichzeitig zu verwenden – zum Beispiel
 durch Anschluss eines Paars an die PA-Anlage und
 eines zweiten Paars an die Monitorlautsprecher.
− Jedes Mal, wenn Sie den DJControl Inpulse T7
 Controller an Ihren Computer anschließen, wird eine
 LED-Beleuchtungssequenz, der sogenannte Vegas
 Mode, gestartet. Der Vegas Mode läuft in vier
 Phasen ab und ermöglicht es, alle LEDs zu
 beleuchten und verschiedene mögliche Farben auf
 den Pads und den hintergrundbeleuchteten Ringen
 der BROWSER-Encoder anzuzeigen.




                        48
Herunterladen der Software

DJUCED

 1. Bitte besuchen Sie:
   https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Downloaden und installieren Sie DJUCED®.
 3. Bitte besuchen Sie:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in Englisch).
 4. Laden Sie das Treiberpaket für das Betriebssystem
   Ihres Computers herunter und installieren Sie es.
            o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
            o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Unter     Windows®       müssen      Sie   die   Treiber
    installieren, um den DJControl Inpulse T7 im ASIO-
    Modus verwenden zu können, der im Vergleich
    zum     WASAPI-Modus          eine   geringere   Latenz
    aufweist und generell stabiler ist.
    Mit den Treibern können Sie auch Ihren DJControl
    Inpulse T7 testen und die Firmware-Version sowohl
    unter Windows® als auch unter macOS® überprüfen.
 5. Starten Sie die DJUCED-Software. Es erscheint ein
   Fenster, das anzeigt, dass Ihr DJControl Inpulse T7
   Controller erkannt wurde und einsatzbereit ist.




                             49
 Wenn Sie die Software zum ersten Mal starten, zeigt
 Ihnen   DJUCED®,       wie    Sie     Ihre   Kopfhörer   und
 Aktivlautsprecher anschließen (oder die im Computer
 eingebauten Lautsprecher verwenden können, wenn
 Sie keine externen Aktivlautsprecher haben). Folgen
 Sie den Informationen auf dem Bildschirm Schritt für
 Schritt, bevor Sie fortfahren.


Audio-Einstellungen:
Um die Einstellungen der Soundkarte zu ändern, klicken
Sie auf das Zahnradsymbol              oben rechts auf dem
Bildschirm. Das Einstellungs-Menü wird angezeigt.
Wählen    Sie   den    Tab    Audio,    um    die   Soundkarte
auszuwählen und die Ausgänge für Kopfhörer und
Lautsprecher zuzuweisen.


Die Standardeinstellung für Windows® ist wie folgt:
  − Audio device (Audiogerät): DJControl Inpulse T7
    ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Ausgang):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                              50
− Die Standardeinstellung für macOS® ist wie folgt:
− Audio device (Audiogerät): DJControl Inpulse T7
− Output (Ausgang):
        o Master: Outputs 1&2
        o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                        51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Bitte besuchen Sie:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Downloaden und installieren Sie Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Bitte besuchen Sie:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in Englisch).
  4. Laden Sie das Treiberpaket für das Betriebssystem
    Ihres Computers herunter und installieren Sie es.
            o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
            o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Unter     Windows®       müssen      Sie   die   Treiber
    installieren, um den DJControl Inpulse T7 im ASIO-
    Modus verwenden zu können, der im Vergleich
    zum     WASAPI-Modus          eine   geringere   Latenz
    aufweist und generell stabiler ist.
    Mit den Treibern können Sie auch Ihren DJControl
    Inpulse T7 Controller testen und die Firmware-
    Version sowohl unter Windows® als auch unter
    macOS® überprüfen.




                             52
Zum Lieferumfang des Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
gehört eine Lizenz für Serato DJ Lite, aber keine
Lizenz für Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite kann ohne zeitliche Begrenzung
genutzt werden.
Wenn Sie Serato DJ Pro anstelle von Serato DJ Lite
installieren, wird Serato DJ Pro mit Ihrem DJControl
Inpulse T7   für   die      Dauer   einer   Testphase
funktionieren. Wenn Sie Serato DJ Pro nach Ablauf
dieses Testzeitraums weiterhin verwenden möchten,
müssen Sie eine Lizenz für Serato DJ Pro erwerben.




                            53
  5.       Den eigenen Mix lebendiger
    machen
Es gibt verschiedene Möglichkeiten, einen Mix zu
beleben.



Modi und Pads

Die Pads

In DJUCED führen die Pads 1 bis 8 die Aktionen aus,
die dem aktuell aktivierten Modus entsprechen.


In Serato DJ Lite führen die Pads 1 bis 4 die Aktionen
aus, die dem aktuell aktivierten Modus entsprechen. Die
Pads 5 bis 8 führen die folgenden Aktionen aus:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (Rückwärtswiedergabe)
  − Pad 6: Zurückspulen
  − Pad 7: Schneller Vorlauf
  − Pad 8: Censor. Mit dieser Aktion können Sie den
    Track rückwärts abspielen, während Sie das Pad
    gedrückt halten. Sobald das Pad losgelassen wird,
    wird die Wiedergabe an dem Punkt fortgesetzt, an
    dem der Track bei normaler Wiedergabe stehen
    würde. Dies kann verwendet werden, um explizite
    Sprache in einem Song zu verbergen.



                          54
Die auf den Pads aktivierten Modi variieren je nach
verwendeter Software:


Modi DJUCED Serato DJ Lite         Serato DJ Pro**

  1     Hot Cue         Hot Cue        Hot Cue

  2    Loop Roll     Auto Loop        Auto Loop
  3      Stems          Stems           Stems
  4     Sampler         Sampler        Sampler
  5    TonePlay           –           Pitch Play
  6     PadFX             –            Loop Roll
  7   Slicer Loop   Manual Loop      Manual Loop
  8    BeatJump     Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Lizenz für Serato DJ Pro nicht im Lieferumfang
enthalten.




                           55
Hot Cue-Modus

Ein Hot Cue-Punkt ist eine Markierung (wie ein
Lesezeichen), die Sie in einem Track setzen können.
Damit können Sie den Track von dieser Stelle aus
abspielen.


In DJUCED können acht Hot Cue-Punkte pro Track
gesetzt werden.


In Serato DJ Lite können vier Hot Cue-Punkte pro Track
gesetzt werden.


In Serato DJ Pro können acht Hot Cue-Punkte pro Track
gesetzt werden.


  1. Um den Hot Cue-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie
    HOT CUE 1. Das Licht der HOT CUE 1-Taste
    leuchtet weiter.
  2. Um einen Hot Cue-Punkt zu setzen, drücken Sie ein
    Pad.
  3. Um den Track von einem Hot Cue-Punkt aus
    abzuspielen, drücken Sie das entsprechende Pad.
  4. Um einen Hot Cue-Punkt zu entfernen, drücken Sie
    SHIFT und das Pad gleichzeitig.




                         56
Loop-Modus




 In DJUCED entspricht dieser Modus dem Loop Roll-
 Modus. Die Fortschrittsanzeige des Decks läuft im
 Hintergrund weiter, wenn Sie einen Loop ausführen.
 Wenn Sie den Loop deaktivieren, wird die Wiedergabe
 an dem Punkt fortgesetzt, an dem sich der Track
 befinden würde, wenn er weiter abgespielt worden wäre.
 In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro entspricht dieser
 Modus dem Auto Loop-Modus.


Ein Loop ist ein Teil des Tracks, der wiederholt
abgespielt wird.
  1. Um den Loop-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie
    LOOP 2. Die LOOP 2-Taste leuchtet weiter.


In DJUCED:
  2. Um einen Loop anzuwenden, drücken und halten
    Sie ein Pad.
  3. Um einen Loop zu deaktivieren, lassen Sie das
    entsprechende Pad los.


In Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Um einen Loop anzuwenden, drücken Sie ein Pad.
  3. Um einen Loop zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie das
    entsprechende Pad.
                          57
Länge des Loops:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2   DJUCED     Serato DJ Lite

      Pad 1         1/16 Beat      1 Beat
      Pad 2          ⅛ Beat        2 Beats
      Pad 3          ¼ Beat        4 Beats
      Pad 4          ½ Beat        8 Beats
      Pad 5          1 Beat           -
      Pad 6         2 Beats           -
      Pad 7         4 Beats           -
      Pad 8         8 Beats           -




                     58
Stems-Modus

Mit dem Stems-Modus können Sie einen Track in vier
verschiedene Teile (Vocals und Instrumente) aufteilen,
die als “stems” bezeichnet werden.


  1. Um den Stems-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie
    STEMS 3. Das Licht der STEMS 3-Taste leuchtet
    weiter.
  2. Die Pads 1 bis 4 sind jeweils mit einem stem
    verbunden. Um die Wiedergabe eines stems zu
    beenden, drücken Sie das entsprechende Pad. Das
    Licht des Pads geht aus.
  3. Um die Wiedergabe des stem fortzusetzen, drücken
    Sie das entsprechende Pad. Das Pad leuchtet auf.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Stem

          Pad 1                        Vocals
          Pad 2                       Melodie
          Pad 3                        Bass
          Pad 4                      Schlagzeug




                          59
Wenn Sie stems in einem Track zum ersten Mal
aktivieren, erfolgt die Trennung nicht immer sofort.
Dies kann einige Augenblicke dauern, während die
DJ-Software     den       Track   analysiert   und     die
verschiedenen     Teile     (Gesang,    Melodie,     Bass,
Schlagzeug) erstellt.


Denken Sie daran, genügend Zeit zwischen dem
Trennen der stems und dem Abspielen zu lassen.
Sobald die verschiedenen Teile für die stems erstellt
wurden, ist die Wiedergabe der stems sofort möglich.


Für die Verwendung des Stems-Modus ist ein
leistungsfähiger Computer erforderlich.




                             60
Sampler-Modus

Ein Sample ist ein kurzer Sound, der über den gerade
abgespielten Track gespielt wird. Er kann entweder
einmalig   (jingle)    oder    in     Wiederholungen   (Loop)
abgespielt werden.


In DJUCED können Sie mit den Pads 1 bis 8 die acht
Samples in den ersten beiden Zeilen des Multilayer-
Samplers abspielen.
Um den Multilayer-Sampler anzuzeigen, wählen Sie
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers im Dropdown-Menü im
oberen linken Teil des Bildschirms in DJUCED.


In Serato DJ Lite können Sie mit den Pads 1 bis 4 ein
Sample abspielen.
Um das Sample-Feld anzuzeigen, klicken Sie auf             in
Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Um den Sampler-Modus aufzurufen, drücken Sie
    SAMPLER 4.         Das    Licht    der   SAMPLER 4-Taste
    leuchtet weiter.
  2. Um ein Sample abzuspielen, drücken Sie ein Pad.
  3. Um die Wiedergabe eines Samples zu beenden,
    drücken Sie SHIFT und das entsprechende Pad
    gleichzeitig.




                               61
Modus 5




Serato DJ Lite verfügt nicht über den Modus 5
(TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro bietet in Verbindung mit dem Plugin
Pitch 'n Time einen Pitch Play-Modus, der nach dem
gleichen Prinzip wie der TonePlay-Modus funktioniert.


In DJUCED entspricht der Modus 5 dem TonePlay-
Modus. In diesem Modus können Sie einen Hot Cue-
Punkt in verschiedenen Tonhöhen wiedergeben.


  1. Aktivieren Sie den Hot Cue-Modus und wählen Sie
    dann einen Hot Cue-Punkt aus.
  2. Um   den   Modus    5    aufzurufen,   drücken   Sie
    gleichzeitig SHIFT und HOT CUE 1. Die Taste HOT
    CUE1 blinkt.
  3. Um die Tonhöhe eines Hot Cue-Punktes zu ändern,
    drücken Sie eines der Pads 2 bis 8.
  4. Um zur ursprünglichen Tonhöhe zurückzukehren,
    drücken Sie Pad 1.




                             62
Veränderung der Tonhöhe:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                Tonhöhe

         Pad 1                  Originale Tonhöhe
         Pad 2                         +1
         Pad 3                         +2
         Pad 4                         +3
         Pad 5                         -1
         Pad 6                         -2
         Pad 7                         -3
         Pad 8                         -4




                           63
Modus 6




 Serato DJ Lite verfügt nicht über den Modus 6.


In DJUCED entspricht der Modus 6 dem PadFX-
Modus. In diesem Modus können Sie die Effekte im
Effekte-Bereich über die Pads steuern.
Ein Effekt ist manchmal ein Filter oder eine Kombination
von    Filtern,       der/die   auf    eine   Spur    angewendet
wird/werden, um deren Klang zu verändern (Echo,
Hall ...).


Um den Effekte-Bereich anzuzeigen, klicken Sie auf              .


  1. Um         den    Modus 6        aufzurufen,    drücken   Sie
      gleichzeitig SHIFT und LOOP 2. Die LOOP 2-Taste
      blinkt.
  2. Um eine Aktion auszuführen, drücken Sie ein Pad.
  3. Um einen Effekt zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie das
      entsprechende Pad (Pad 1 bis 3).




                                  64
Mögliche Aktionen:

Deck 1 / Deck                    Effekte

    Pad 1                   Effekt 1 im Bereich
    Pad 2                   Effekt 2 im Bereich
    Pad 3                   Effekt 3 im Bereich
    Pad 4       Blendet den Effekte-Bereich ein bzw.
                                aus
    Pad 5            Verändert den Effekt 1 im Bereich
    Pad 6            Verändert den Effekt 2 im Bereich
    Pad 7            Verändert den Effekt 3 im Bereich
    Pad 8                            -




                            65
Modus 7




In DJUCED entspricht Modus 7 dem Slicer Loop-
Modus. In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro entspricht
der Modus 7 dem Manual Loop-Modus.


In DJUCED entspricht der Modus 7 dem Slicer Loop-
Modus. In diesem Modus können Sie den aktiven Loop
in acht Abschnitte aufteilen.


  1. Um den Modus 7 (Slicer Loop) aufzurufen, drücken
    Sie    SHIFT    und    STEMS 3   gleichzeitig.   Die
    STEMS 3-Taste blinkt.
  2. Um einen Abschnitt als Loop abzuspielen, drücken
    und halten Sie ein Pad.
  3. Um die Wiedergabe eines Abschnitts zu beenden,
    lassen Sie das entsprechende Pad los.




                            66
In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro entspricht der
Modus 7 dem Manual Loop-Modus. In diesem Modus
können Sie einen Loop manuell aktivieren.


  1. Um auf Modus 7 (Manual Loop) zuzugreifen,
    drücken Sie gleichzeitig SHIFT und STEMS 3. Die
    STEMS 3-Taste blinkt.


Mögliche Aktionen:

  Deck 1/2                         Effekte

   Pad 1       Erster Tastendruck: setzt den In-Point (IN)
               Zweiter Tastendruck: ändert den In-Punkt
                                    (IN)
   Pad 2        Erster Tastendruck: setzt den Out-Punkt
                                   (OUT)
                 Zweiter Tastendruck: ändert den Out-
                                 Punkt (OUT)
   Pad 3             Aktiviert/deaktiviert den Loop
   Pad 4         Bewegt die Fortschrittsanzeige an den
               Anfang des Loops und spielt den Loop ab
                                  (Reloop)

AUTOLOOP-        Erhöht/verringert die Länge des Loops
  Encoder




                            67
Modus 8




In DJUCED entspricht der Modus 8 dem BeatJump-
Modus. In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro entspricht
der Modus 8 dem Scratch Banks-Modus.


In DJUCED entspricht der Modus 8 dem BeatJump-
Modus. Mit diesem Modus können Sie einen präzisen
Sprung im Track machen.


  1. Um den Modus 8 (BeatJump) aufzurufen, drücken
    Sie gleichzeitig SHIFT und SAMPLER 4. Die
    SAMPLER 4-Taste blinkt.
  2. Um einen Sprung zu machen, drücken Sie ein Pad.


Länge des Sprungs:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2                  Sprung

       Pad 1                    1 Beat zurück
       Pad 2                   1 Beat vorwärts
       Pad 3                   2 Beats zurück
       Pad 4                   2 Beats vorwärts
       Pad 5                   4 Beats zurück
       Pad 6                   4 Beats vorwärts
       Pad 7                   8 Beats zurück
       Pad 8                   8 Beats vorwärts
                          68
In Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro entspricht Modus 8
dem Scratch Banks-Modus. In diesem Modus können
Sie direkt ein Scratch-Sample auf das Deck laden, um
auf dem motorbetriebenen Plattenteller anstelle des
aktuell wiedergegebenen Tracks zu scratchen, und dann
schnell    zum     aktuell       wiedergegebenen   Track
zurückkehren.
Um das Scratch-Sample-Bedienfeld anzuzeigen, klicken
Sie in Serato DJ Lite auf    .


  1. Um auf Modus 8 (Scratch Banks) zuzugreifen,
    drücken Sie SHIFT und SAMPLER 4 gleichzeitig.
    Die SAMPLER 4-Taste blinkt.
  2. Um ein Scratch-Sample abzuspielen, drücken Sie
    ein Pad.
  3. Um die Wiedergabe eines Scratch-Samples zu
    beenden und zu dem Track zurückzukehren, der
    zuvor abgespielt wurde, drücken Sie gleichzeitig
    SHIFT und das entsprechende Pad.


Samples:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Sample

           Pad 1                         Ahh!
           Pad 2                       Hey You!
           Pad 3                        Oww!
           Pad 4                        Yeah!


                             69
Scratchen
Beim    Scratchen      wird     durch     Drehen       des
motorbetriebenen Plattentellers ein Geräuscheffekt aus
einem Track erzeugt.


Legen Sie Ihren Zeigefinger auf die Oberseite des
motorbetriebenen Plattentellers und machen Sie kurze,
schnelle Bewegungen nach rechts und nach links.


Sie können diesen Scratch mehrfach wiederholen, um
einen Rhythmus zu erzeugen.




 − Vergewissern Sie sich vor dem Scratchen oder
   Mixen, dass Sie eine Slipmat aus Filz zwischen den
   motorbetriebenen    Plattenteller    und   die   Vinyl-
   Schallplatte gelegt haben.
 − Beim Auflegen der Vinyl-Schallplatte auf den
   motorbetriebenen Plattenteller sollten Sie keine
   Gewalt anwenden. Sie könnten die Mitte der Vinyl-
   Schallplatte beschädigen.




                          70
Filter
Durch die Veränderung des Filters des Tracks können
Sie bestimmte Frequenzen absenken.


  − Zum     Absenken         der   hohen      Frequenzen
    (Tiefpassfilter oder High-Cut-Filter): Drehen Sie den
    Filterregler (FILTER) nach links.
  − Zum    Absenken    der    tiefen    Frequenzen   (auch
    Hochpassfilter oder Low-Cut-Filter genannt): Drehen
    Sie den Filterregler (FILTER) nach rechts.




                             71
  6.    Mehrkanal-Soundkarte
Der DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller verfügt über eine
integrierte Mehrkanal-Soundkarte, die es ermöglicht, den
Mix auf den Lautsprechern für das Publikum abzuspielen
(Master-Ausgang für Lautsprecher) und den nächsten
Track, der gerade vorbereitet wird, über Kopfhörer
abzuhören (Kopfhörerausgang). Außerdem können Sie
ein Mikrofon und/oder ein Gerät mit einem Line-Level-
Ausgang als Audioquelle verwenden.




                          72
Master-Ausgang              für      Lautsprecher
(Ausgang 1-2)
Ihre Aktivlautsprecher sollten an einen der zwei Master-
Ausgänge für Lautsprecher auf der Rückseite Ihres DJ-
Controllers angeschlossen werden.




Es ist möglich, beide Ausgangsformate gleichzeitig zu
nutzen – zum Beispiel, indem ein Ausgangspaar an
die PA-Anlage und ein zweites Ausgangspaar an die
Monitor-Lautsprecher angeschlossen wird.



                          73
Kopfhörerausgang (Ausgang 3-4)
Ihr    Kopfhörer    muss      an   einen      der   beiden
Kopfhörerausgänge          an der Vorderseite Ihres DJ-
Controllers angeschlossen werden.




Standardmäßig wird der Kopfhörerausgang jedes Mal,
wenn    Ihr   DJ-Controller   angeschlossen    wird,   dem
Ausgang 3-4 zugewiesen, so dass er mit aller auf dem
Markt erhältlichen DJing-Software arbeiten kann –
insbesondere auch mit DJUCED® und Serato DJ Lite.


Wenn Sie jedoch den Kopfhörerausgang Ihres DJ-
Controllers verwenden möchten, um Musik auf Ihrem
Computer zu hören, z. B. mit iTunes, müssen Sie den
Ausgang 1-2 zum Kopfhörerausgang leiten. Drücken Sie
dazu die Taste        unter dem MASTER-VU-Meter.


                              74
Es wird nicht empfohlen, zwei Kopfhörer gleichzeitig
anzuschließen   (d.    h.   eines   an   den   3,5-mm-
Miniklinkenausgang und eines an den 6,35-mm-
Klinkenausgang). Wenn die beiden Kopfhörer nicht die
gleiche Impedanz haben, haben sie unterschiedliche
Ausgangslautstärken.




                            75
Mikrofoneingang
Ihr Mikrofon muss an den Mikrofoneingang auf der
Rückseite Ihres DJ-Controllers angeschlossen werden.
Der Mikrofoneingang ist symmetrisch.




                         76
Sie können ein symmetrisches oder asymmetrisches
Mikrofon anschließen. Ein symmetrisches Mikrofon
erzeugt einen klareren, stärkeren Klang mit weniger
Atemgeräuschen. Wenn Ihr symmetrisches Mikrofon
nicht mit einem symmetrischen Kabel angeschlossen
ist, mindert Ihr Mikrofonkabel die Klangqualität des
Mikrofons.


                    Symmetrisches Kabel

             Tip (Spitze)
                    Ring

       Sleeve (Schaft)




                    Asymmetrisches Kabel


             Tip (Spitze)


       Sleeve (Schaft)




                            77
  7.     Kompatibilität

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Dieser DJ-Controller ist Plug & Play-fähig und kann ohne
Treiber mit DJUCED auf jedem PC oder Mac betrieben
werden, da es den USB Audio- und USB MIDI-
Standards entspricht.



ASIO und Windows®-Kontrollpanel
Um den DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller mit Serato DJ
Lite zu verwenden, müssen Sie die ASIO-Treiber
installieren. Die ASIO-Treiber sind hier erhältlich:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Wenn Sie DJUCED verwenden, können Sie auch die
ASIO-Treiber    herunterladen,    um    die   Vorteile   der
geringeren Latenz auf Ihrem PC zu nutzen.


Die ASIO-Treiber umfassen auch ein Kontrollpanel, das
in der Taskleiste des PCs oder im Verzeichnis
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\ zu finden ist. Über dieses Kontrollpanel
können Sie die verschiedenen ASIO-Einstellungen
einschließlich der Puffergrößen und der Latenzzeit
anpassen.
                            78
Zur Anpassung der ASIO-Einstellungen:
  − Setzen Sie die USB-Puffergröße auf 4 oder 8 ms.
  − Starten Sie Ihre Software (z. B. DJUCED®) und
    wählen Sie den DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)-
    Treiber:




Sobald die Software den ASIO-Treiber verwendet,
können die ASIO-Einstellungen nicht mehr über das
Kontrollpanel geändert werden. Dies ist völlig normal
und weist darauf hin, dass der ASIO-Treiber verwendet
wird.




                         79
Achten Sie bei der Verwendung Ihrer Software auf
Audiostörungen       oder      Artefakte   (Klick-   und
Knackgeräusche) und Latenzprobleme: Sollte eines
dieser Audiostörungen oder Artefakte auftreten, müssen
Sie die Puffergrößen vergrößern, um diese Probleme zu
lösen.


Schließen Sie Ihre Software und passen Sie den ASIO-
Puffer nach und nach um jeweils einen Wert an:
  − Verringern Sie die Puffergröße, um die Latenz zu
     verringern.
  − Erhöhen Sie die Puffergröße, wenn Sie Störungen
     oder Artefakte im Ton feststellen


Sie müssen diesen Vorgang wiederholen, bis Sie die
optimale Puffergröße für Ihr System gefunden haben.


Die Treiber sind hier erhältlich:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Aktualisierung der Firmware
Ihr DJ-Controller verfügt über einen automatischen
Firmware-Update-Modus.        Dazu   müssen   Sie   die
Hercules-Treiber installieren und den Anweisungen auf
dem Bildschirm folgen. Die Aktualisierung der Firmware
erfolgt dann automatisch.


Die Treiber sind hier erhältlich:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/

Das Kontrollpanel ermöglicht Ihnen auch den Zugriff auf
diese Informationen und zeigt die auf Ihrem Computer
installierten Treiberversionen in dem Tab ABOUT
(ÜBER) an. Halten Sie diese Informationen bereit, falls
Sie den technischen Support von Hercules kontaktieren
müssen.




                             81
Testen          des       DJ-Controllers               im
Kontrollpanel
Im Abschnitt ABOUT (ÜBER) des Kontrollpanels Ihres
DJControl Inpulse T7 können Sie den Ton, die MIDI-
Steuerung und die Beleuchtung Ihres DJ-Controllers
sowie die motorbetriebenen Plattenteller testen.
Um auf das Kontrollpanel zuzugreifen, rufen Sie das
folgende        Verzeichnis       auf:          C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Audiotest

Um zu testen, ob das Audio-Interface des DJControl
Inpulse T7 Controller einen Ton erzeugt (ohne dafür DJ-
Software   zu    verwenden),    klicken   Sie    auf   das
Lautsprechersymbol. Das Symbol wechselt während des
Tests auf grün, und das Programm spielt einen Ton auf
den Master-Ausgängen für Lautsprecher und Kopfhörer
ab.




                           82
  2. Test der MIDI-Steuerelemente

Um zu testen, ob die MIDI-Bedienelemente des
DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller funktionieren (ohne
dass Sie dazu DJ-Software verwenden müssen),
versuchen     Sie,     die     Tasten       oder   anderen
Bedienelemente zu verwenden, die Sie testen möchten.
Wenn das Symbol des DIN-Anschlusses grün leuchtet,
bedeutet dies, dass der MIDI-Befehl empfangen wird
und   die   Taste    oder    das   andere    Bedienelement
ordnungsgemäß funktioniert.




                             83
  3. Test der Leuchten

Um zu testen, ob die LEDs des DJControl Inpulse T7
Controller funktionieren (ohne die DJ-Software dafür zu
verwenden), klicken Sie auf das Glühbirnen-Symbol, um
die LEDs des Controllers zum Leuchten zu bringen. Das
Symbol wird während des Tests grün, und die LEDs des
Controllers leuchten auf.




Sie können auch alle LEDs des DJControl Inpulse T7
Controller   zum     Leuchten    bringen,   indem   Sie
gleichzeitig die IN- und OUT-Tasten an beiden Decks
drücken.




                            84
  4. Test der motorbetriebenen Plattentellers

Um zu testen, ob die motorbetriebenen Plattenteller des
DJControl Inpulse T7 Controllers funktionieren (ohne
dafür DJ-Software zu verwenden), klicken Sie auf das
Symbol für Plattenteller 1 oder 2. Die Symbole für den
entsprechenden Plattenteller und den DIN-Anschluss
leuchten während des Tests grün, und der
motorbetriebene Plattenteller bewegt (d.h. dreht) sich
auf dem Controller.


Test des motorbetriebenen Plattentellers Nummer 1:




  Test des motorbetriebenen Plattentellers Nummer 2:




                           85
  8.     Demo-Modus
Dieser Modus ist verfügbar, wenn Sie Ihren DJ-
Controller an eine Stromversorgung und ein USB-
Netzteil ohne Computer anschließen. Er wird vor allem
in Geschäften verwendet. In diesem Fall ist der DJ-
Controller nicht betriebsbereit, sondern befindet sich im
Demo-Modus:      Eine      Demo-Sequenz,        welche   die
verschiedenen    Lichter    des   Controllers    beleuchtet,
wiederholt sich ständig.




                             86
  9.         FAQs

 1.          Aus meinem Kopfhörer kommt
      kein Ton.
Überprüfen Sie, ob Sie Ihren Kopfhörer an der
Vorderseite des DJ-Controllers angeschlossen haben,
da     Ihr   Produkt   mit     einer   Mehrkanal-Soundkarte
ausgestattet ist, die für die Arbeit mit DJUCED® und
Serato DJ Lite vorkonfiguriert ist.
Standardmäßig       sind     die   beiden   Monitoring-Tasten
aktiviert, wenn die Software zum ersten Mal gestartet
wird. Sie können dann eines der beiden Decks
auswählen, das Sie über Ihren Kopfhörer anhören
möchten oder die Taste              unter dem MASTER-VU-
Meter drücken, um das Ergebnis Ihres Mixes zu hören.




                               87
  2.     Der Ton auf meinem Kopfhörer
    ist verzerrt oder zu leise.
Stellen Sie sicher, dass Ihr Kopfhörer über einen TRS-
Stecker (Standard-Kopfhörer) und nicht über einen
TRRS-Stecker (Kopfhörer + Mikrofon) verfügt.


       Tip (Spitze)                    Tip (Spitze)
              Ring                     Ring
                                       Ring
   Sleeve (Schaft)
                                       Sleeve (Schaft)




TRRS-Stecker sind nicht kompatibel mit dem DJControl
Inpulse T7 Controller.




                          88
   3.     Aus         meinen         Lautsprechern
       kommt kein Ton.
Stellen Sie sicher, dass Sie Ihre Lautsprecher an die
RCA-oder XLR-Anschlüsse auf der Rückseite des DJ-
Controllers angeschlossen haben, da Ihr Produkt mit
einer Mehrkanal-Soundkarte ausgestattet ist, die für die
Arbeit mit DJUCED® und Serato DJ Lite vorkonfiguriert
ist.


Um zu testen (ohne Verwendung von DJ-Software), ob
die     Audioschnittstelle   des   DJControl   Inpulse T7
Controller auch wirklich Töne produziert, können Sie das
Kontrollpanel des DJ-Controllers aufrufen. Klicken Sie
auf die Registerkarte ABOUT (ÜBER) und klicken Sie
dann auf das Lautsprechersymbol. Das Symbol wird
grün, wenn Ton wiedergegeben wird.




                             89
  4.      Aus den Lautsprechern meines
       Laptops kommt kein Ton.
Ihr    DJ-Controller   ist    mit   einer   vorkonfigurierten
Mehrkanal-Soundkarte ausgestattet. Um die in Ihrem
Laptop     eingebauten       Lautsprecher   zu   verwenden,
müssen Sie Folgendes tun:
  − Öffnen Sie in DJUCED® die Einstellungen und
       markieren Sie die Option SEND MASTER TO
       COMPUTER SPEAKERS (MASTERSIGNAL AN
       DIE COMPUTER-LAUTSPRECHER SENDEN).




  − Gehen Sie in Serato DJ Lite zu den Einstellungen,
       öffnen Sie den Tab Audio und markieren Sie die
       Option Use Laptop Speakers (Laptop-Lautsprecher
       verwenden).




                               90
  5.       Aus meinem Kopfhörer oder den
       Lautsprechern                meines            Laptops
       kommt kein Ton.
Standardmäßig wird der Ton über den Master-Ausgang
für     Lautsprecher     und        den        Kopfhörerausgang
ausgegeben. Es ist daher normal, dass kein Ton aus
Ihrem Laptop kommt.


Um die im Laptop eingebauten Lautsprecher zu
verwenden, müssen Sie Folgendes tun:


  − Öffnen Sie in DJUCED® die Einstellungen und
       markieren Sie die Option SEND MASTER TO
       COMPUTER SPEAKERS (MASTERSIGNAL AN
       DIE COMPUTER-LAUTSPRECHER SENDEN). Sie
       müssen    Ihren   Kopfhörer        an    den    DJControl
       Inpulse T7 Controller anschließen.




                               91
  − Gehen Sie in Serato DJ Lite zu den Einstellungen,
      öffnen Sie den Tab Audio und markieren Sie die
      Option Use Laptop Speakers (Laptop-Lautsprecher
      verwenden). Sie müssen Ihren Kopfhörer an den
      DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller anschließen.




Um zu testen (ohne Verwendung von DJ-Software), ob
die    Audioschnittstelle   des   DJControl   Inpulse T7
Controllers auch wirklich Töne produziert, können Sie
das Kontrollpanel des DJ-Controllers aufrufen. Klicken
Sie auf den Tab ABOUT (ÜBER) und klicken Sie dann
auf das Lautsprechersymbol. Das Symbol wird grün,
wenn Ton wiedergegeben wird.




                            92
  6.      Ich    habe       Probleme         mit       der
     Tonqualität unter Windows®.

Die Lautstärke des abgespielten Tracks ist zu
niedrig

Die Master-Lautstärke der DJ-Software ist nicht von den
Lautstärkereglern am DJ-Controller abhängig. Deshalb
wird, solange die Master-Lautstärke der DJ-Software
niedrig ist, die Lautstärke des Master-Ausgangs ebenfalls
niedrig sein.


Überprüfen Sie die Lautstärke der DJ-Software und
erhöhen Sie diese gegebenenfalls.

  − Verwenden Sie in DJUCED die Lautstärketaste in
     der Leiste im oberen rechten Teil des Fensters.




  − Verwenden Sie in Serato DJ Lite die Lautstärketaste
     in der Leiste oben rechts im Fenster.




                            93
Die Lautstärke meines Kopfhörers ist zu
niedrig

Rufen Sie in Serato DJ Lite die Einstellungen auf, öffnen
Sie den Tab Audio und entfernen Sie das Häkchen bei
der Option (d. h. deaktivieren Sie) Use Laptop Speakers
(Laptop-Lautsprecher verwenden).




                           94
Wenn Sie das Häkchen bei der Option Use Laptop
Speakers (Laptop-Lautsprecher verwenden) belassen
müssen (d. h. aktiviert), stellen Sie die integrierte
Soundkarte     des        Computers       als    "Computer-
Lautsprecher" ein:
  1. Schließen Sie die Serato DJ Lite-Software.
  2. Rufen Sie die Windows-Einstellungen auf und
    gehen Sie zu System und dann Sound.
  3. Wählen Sie unter Output (Ausgabe) die eingebaute
    Soundkarte des Computers. Ihr DJ-Controller muss
    nicht mehr als Ausgabe gesetzt sein.




Windows® hat möglicherweise Ihren DJ-Controller als
Windows®-Soundkarte        eingestellt.   Wenn   Sie diese
Einstellung beibehalten, kann die Einstellung Use
Laptop Speakers (Laptop-Lautsprecher verwenden) den
Master-Ausgang       am    4-Kanal-Ausgang       Ihres   DJ-
Controllers (Master-Ausgang + Kopfhörer) wiedergeben.




                             95
Der Ton ist nicht klar

In DJUCED®:
Wir   empfehlen      Ihnen,    ein   ASIO-Audiogerät   zu
verwenden. Mit einem WASAPI-Gerät ist die Tonqualität
im Allgemeinen gut. Allerdings kann sich die Latenzzeit
erhöhen und der Ton ist möglicherweise nicht klar.


Rufen Sie die Einstellungen auf, klicken Sie auf den Tab
Audio und wählen Sie DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
(ASIO) als Audio device (Audiogerät).




In Serato DJ Lite:
Rufen Sie die Einstellungen auf, öffnen Sie den Tab
Audio und entfernen Sie das Häkchen bei der Option (d.
h. deaktivieren Sie) Use Laptop Speakers (Laptop-
Lautsprecher verwenden).




                              96
  7.      Ich         kann        meine             Multimedia-
      Lautsprecher                nicht         an        meinen
      DJControl Inpulse T7 anschließen.
Wenn sich die Anschlüsse Ihrer Lautsprecher von den
Anschlüssen       am         DJControl      Inpulse T7    Controller
unterscheiden, können Sie einen Doppel-RCA-auf-3,5-
mm-Miniklinken-Adapter             (nicht      im      Lieferumfang
enthalten)      für     den     Anschluss       von      Multimedia-
Lautsprechern, einen Doppel-XLR-auf-6,35-mm-Klinken-
Adapter (nicht im Lieferumfang enthalten) für den
Anschluss von PA-Lautsprechern oder ein anderes,
Ihren   Lautsprechern          entsprechendes         Adapterformat
verwenden.
Sie     können        Ihre     Lautsprecher      auch      an   den
Kopfhörerausgang anschließen und Ausgang 1-2 durch
Drücken der            -Taste, die sich unter dem MASTER-
VU-Meter befindet, an Ausgang 3-4 leiten.


  8.      Ist         der      DJControl             Inpulse T7
      Controller mit einem iPad oder
      iPhone kompatibel?
Nein, der DJControl Inpulse T7 ist nicht mit einem iPad
oder iPhone kompatibel. Er funktioniert nur mit einem
PC oder Mac.


                                  97
  9.    Wie       kann      ich    den      DJControl
    Inpulse T7 Controller mit einem USB-
    C-Anschluss                   oder              einem
    Thunderbolt 3-Anschluss verbinden?
Sie können den DJControl Inpulse T7 Controller auf drei
verschiedene Arten mit einem USB-C- oder einem
Thunderbolt 3-Anschluss verbinden:
  − Durch Verwendung eines Adapters (USB-C- oder
    Thunderbolt-3-Stecker         auf     USB-A-Buchse)
    zwischen dem Computer und dem DJ-Controller.
    Bitte beachten Sie, dass einige preiswerte Adapter
    nicht richtig funktionieren, da sie einen Teil der
    Stromversorgung unterbrechen.
  − Durch Verwendung eines Docks (USB-C oder
    Thunderbolt 3) zwischen dem Computer und dem
    DJ-Controller. Stellen Sie sicher, dass das Dock
    über eine eigene Stromversorgung verfügt, da ein
    Dock, das nur über den USB-C- oder Thunderbolt-
    3-Anschluss     mit      Strom       versorgt     wird,
    möglicherweise nicht genug Strom hat.
  − Durch Ersetzen des mitgelieferten USB-Kabels
    durch ein USB-C- oder Thunderbolt 3- auf USB-B
    2.0-Kabel.




                            98
 TECHNISCHER SUPPORT
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Marken
Intel® und Intel Core™ sind Marken oder eingetragene Marken der Intel
Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 ist eine eingetragene Marke oder Marke der
Microsoft Corporation in den USA und/oder in anderen Ländern.
Mac® und macOS® sind in den USA und anderen Ländern eingetragene
Marken von Apple Inc.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite und Serato DJ Pro sind eingetragene Marken
von Serato Audio Research Limited.
Die Marke DJUCED und die grafischen Elemente von DJUCED sind
das Eigentum der Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO ist eine Marke der Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Alle anderen Marken und Markennamen werden in diesem Dokument
anerkannt und sind Eigentum der jeweiligen Inhaber. Abbildungen sind
nicht verbindlich. Inhalt, Design und Spezifikationen in diesem Dokument
können ohne vorherige Ankündigung geändert werden und können von
Land zu Land variieren.




                                 100
Copyright
Kein Teil dieses Handbuchs darf ohne die ausdrückliche schriftliche
Genehmigung     der   Guillemot     Corporation   S.A.   vervielfältigt,
zusammengefasst, übertragen, transkribiert, in einem Abfragesystem
gespeichert oder in eine andere Sprache oder Computersprache
übersetzt werden. Dies gilt für jede Form und jedes Mittel, egal ob
elektronisch, mechanisch, magnetisch, manuell, durch Fotokopie,
Aufzeichnung oder auf andere Weise.




                                  101
DJUCED®                 und          Serato            DJ        Lite
Endbenutzer-Lizenzvereinbarung
Bitte lesen Sie die Lizenzvereinbarung, die während der Installation von
DJUCED® und Serato DJ Lite angezeigt wird, sorgfältig durch.




                                  102
Handleiding
                INHOUDSOPGAVE


1.   DOOS VAN DE VERPAKKING ..................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ..... 8

2.   TECHNISCHE SPECIFICATIES .................. 10

3.   KENMERKEN .............................................. 13

     Overzicht ..................................................... 13

     Decks ........................................................... 14

     Mixen ........................................................... 32

     Aansluitingen .............................................. 43

4.   INSTALLATIE .............................................. 46

     Aansluitingen .............................................. 46

     De software downloaden ........................... 49

5.   BRENG EXTRA LEVEN IN UW MIX ........... 54

     Modi en pads............................................... 54

     Scratchen .................................................... 70

     Filters ........................................................... 71
6.   MEERKANAALS AUDIOVERSTERKER .... 72

     Master-uitgang voor

     speakers (uitgang 1-2) ............................... 73

     Koptelefoonuitgang (uitgang 3-4) ............. 74

     Microfooningang ........................................ 76

7.   COMPATIBILITEIT ...................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ............................... 78

     ASIO- en Windows®-bedieningspaneel .... 78

     Firmware-update ........................................ 81

     De DJ-controller testen in het

     bedieningspaneel ....................................... 82

8.   DEMO-MODUS ............................................ 86

9.   FAQS............................................................ 87
De Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 is een volledig
uitgeruste controller die u helpt de kunst van het draaien
op vinyl onder de knie te krijgen dankzij de twee
jogwielen, instructievideo's en integratie van de software
DJUCED en Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 bevat een licentie voor
Serato DJ Lite, geen licentie voor Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite kan zonder tijdsbeperking worden
gebruikt.
Als u Serato DJ Pro installeert in plaats van Serato DJ
Lite, werkt Serato DJ Pro met uw DJControl Inpulse T7
gedurende een proefperiode. Aan het einde van deze
proefperiode moet u een Serato DJ Pro-licentie
aanschaffen als u Serato DJ Pro wilt blijven gebruiken.



                            4
Er is een grote verscheidenheid aan videotutorials
beschikbaar om u te helpen leren mixen met de
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7-controller:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (in het Engels):
        o In DJUCED, door op het           pictogram te
          klikken.
        o Op de website van DJUCED.
  − Het Hercules Audio YouTube-kanaal (in het
    Engels).
  − The DJ Coach, met cursussen gegeven door DJ
    HAPA op Serato DJ Lite (in het Engels).




                          5
 1.    Doos van de verpakking

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Twee vinylplaten (7 inch / 17,8 cm)
 − Twee vilten slipmatten
 − Gevlochten USB-voedingskabel
 − Verwijderbare voedingskabel
 − Voedingsadapter
 − Gebruiksaanwijzing
 − Garantieverklaring




                            6
U kunt de beschermfolies verwijderen die de VU-
meters afdekken op de Hercules DJControl Inpulse
T7-controller. U kunt de beschermfolies ook laten
zitten, want deze heeft geen invloed op het gebruik
van de VU-meter.




                        7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Twee vinylplaten (7 inch / 17,8 cm)
 − Twee vilten slipmatten
 − Twee dunne vilten slipmatten
 − Gevlochten USB-kabel
 − Verwijderbare stroomkabel
 − Voedingsadapter
 − Draagtas
 − Gebruiksaanwijzing
 − Garantieflyer




U kunt de beschermfolies verwijderen die de de VU-
meters afdekken op de Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
Premium Edition-controller. U kunt de beschermfolies
ook laten zitten, want deze hebben geen invloed op
het gebruik van de VU-meters.




                            9
  2.     Technische specificaties
Systeemvereisten:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (in het Engels)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (in het Engels)


Audio-uitgangen:
       o Resolutie = 24-bit
       o Sample frequentie = 44.1 kHz


Master-uitgang voor speakers (uitgang 1-2) via:
  − Twee RCA-connectoren
       o Maximaal uitgangsvermogen = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Twee XLR-connectoren (gebalanceerd):
       o Maximum uitgangsvermogen = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Koptelefoonuitgang (uitgang 3-4) via één 3,5 mm stereo
mini-jackaansluiting   en     één   6,35   mm     stereo
jackaansluiting:
           o Maximum uitgangsvermogen = 5 dBU voor
              32Ω @ 1 kHz


Microfooningang via één 6,35 mm jackaansluiting
(gebalanceerd)

                            10
               Stroomvoorziening
− Gebruik   alleen   de    stroomvoorziening        zoals
  aangegeven in de gebruiksaanwijzing.
− Gebruik de stroomvoorziening alleen met de
  netwerkspanning    en   -frequentie   die    op     het
  typeplaatje van de stroomvoorziening vermeld
  staan.




                          11
       Informatie over de stroomvoorziening
  Gepubliceerde                Waarde          Eenheid
    informatie
     Naam of               GUILLEMOT
handelsmerk van de      CORPORATION S.A.
     fabrikant          414 196 758 R.C.S.
  Bedrijfsnummer             Vannes
       Adres           2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                          56910 Carentoir
                               Frankrijk
  Modelidentificatie      A481-1852590D
  Ingangsspanning              100 - 240         V
Ingangsfrequentie AC            50 - 60          Hz
 Uitgangsfrequentie              18,5           V DC
  Uitgangsstroom                  2,6            A
 Uitgangsvermogen                47,9            W
Gemiddelde actieve               87,8            %
    efficiëntie
 Rendement bij lage              87,8            %
  belasting (10%)
   Stroomverbruik                0,10            W
  zonder belasting




                          12
 3.     Kenmerken

Overzicht




 1. Jogwiel
 2. Transportdrukknoppen (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Lusbedieningen (Lus)
 4. Bedieningen voor trackselectie (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempofader (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads en modi
 7. Afspeelmodi
 8. Monitoring,        volume    (Master,   koptelefoon   en
      microfoon) en Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixgedeelte (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixer (crossfader, volumefader)
 11. Effecten




                                13
Decks

  1. Jogwiel




Vilten slipmat: geplaatst tussen het jogwiel en de
vinylplaat. Het beschermt de vinylplaat tegen wrijving
tegen het wiel en vermindert trillingen tijdens het
afspelen van de plaat.




 U moet er altijd voor zorgen dat u de vilten slipmat op
 het jogwiel legt voordat u de vinylplaat installeert.




                             14
Vinylplaat: hiermee kunt u scratchen, het afspelen
versnellen of vertragen en binnen het nummer bewegen.
De lijn op het label van de vinylplaat is een
referentiepunt (d.w.z. een marker) voor het mixen en
scratchen.


De actie die wordt uitgevoerd hangt af van twee criteria:
  − het nummer dat wordt afgespeeld of gepauzeerd;
  − de plaats waar u de vinylplaat aanraakt (top of ring).


                           Top




      Ring




                           15
Acties van de vinylplaten met Serato DJ Lite en Serato
DJ Pro:


 Afspelen/Pauze         Jogwiel         SHIFT-knop
     Afspelen             Top                  -
                       Scratchen
                                          Ingedrukt
     Afspelen           Top/Ring
                                           houden
              Snel bewegen binnen de track
     Afspelen             Ring                 -
            Afspelen versnellen of vertragen
      Pauze             Top/Ring               -
              Traag bewegen binnen de track
                                          Ingedrukt
      Pauze             Top/Ring
                                           houden
              Snel bewegen binnen de track




                          16
Acties van de vinylplaten met DJUCED:


 Afspelen/Pauze         Jogwiel          SHIFT-knop
     Afspelen             Top                  -
                       Scratchen
     Afspelen          Top/Ring       Ingedrukt houden
              Snel bewegen binnen de track
     Afspelen            Ring                  -
            Afspelen versnellen of vertragen
      Pauze              Ring                  -
            Traag bewegen binnen de track




                          17
Jogwiel: drijft de vinylplaat aan die het afspelen van de
track en de snelheid van de track regelt volgens het
tempo dat met de tempofader is ingesteld.


Wanneer de Beatmatch Guide-functie is ingeschakeld,
geven de visuele begeleidingen van BEAT ALIGN de
richting aan waarin u de ring (d.w.z. de rand) van het
jogwiel moet draaien om de beatrasters van de twee
tracks op elkaar af te stemmen. Wanneer de twee rode
pijlen niet zijn verlicht, worden de beatrasters afgestemd.


Lees de Beatmatch Guide-sectie voor meer informatie
over de Beatmatch Guide-functie.




 Het is niet mogelijk om de motorisering van de
 jogwielen uit te schakelen.




   − Wanneer het jogwiel draait, moet u deze niet te
     lang   met    uw   hand     tegenhouden    om    het
     aandrijfsysteem niet te beschadigen.
   − Forceer de vinylplaat niet wanneer u deze op het
     jogwiel plaatst. U loopt het risico om het midden
     van de vinylplaat te beschadigen.

                            18
   2. Transportdrukknoppen




SHIFT: gecombineerde bediening. Bijvoorbeeld:
   − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): vergrendelt de
       muzieksleutel van de track.
   − SHIFT + IN: in DJUCED®, halveert de lengte van de
       actieve lus.


SYNC: schakelt de automatische synchronisatie van de
BPM-waarden (beats per minuut) van twee tracks in of
uit.
   − SHIFT + SYNC:
         o In DJUCED: maakt het deck verantwoordelijk
           voor de synchronisatie (Master Sync).
         o In Serato DJ Lite: schakelt synchronisatie uit op
           het deck.




                             19
CUE: voegt een Cue-punt in de track in om een specifiek
moment te identificeren, of verplaatst de deck-afspeelkop
naar de positie van het Cue-punt.
  − Track is gepauzeerd: plaatst een Cue-punt op de
    positie waar de track is gestopt.
  − Track wordt afgespeeld: stopt het afspelen van de track
    en verplaatst de deck-afspeelkop naar het Cue-punt.
      o Als er geen Cue-punt is vastgelegd in DJUCED,
            drukt u op CUE om het afspelen te stoppen en een
            Cue-punt te plaatsen op de positie van de
            afspeelkop.
      o Als er geen Cue-punt is vastgelegd in Serato DJ Lite,
            drukt u op CUE om het afspelen te stoppen en een
            Cue-punt te plaatsen aan het begin van de track.
  − CUE + PLAY: verplaatst de afspeelkop naar het Cue-
    punt en speelt de tracks af vanaf die positie.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o In DJUCED: verplaatst de afspeelkop naar het
            begin van de track en stopt het afspelen.
      o In Serato DJ Lite: verplaatst de afspeelkop naar
            het begin van de track en start het afspelen.


Afspelen/Pauzeren: speelt de track af/pauzeert het
afspelen.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: in Serato DJ Lite, verplaatst de
    afspeelkop naar het Cue-punt en speelt de tracks af
    vanaf deze markering.

                               20
  3. Lusbedieningen




AUTOLOOP-encoder:
  − Druk op de encoder: schakelt het afspelen van de lus
    in of uit.
  − Draai aan de encoder: past de lengte van de lus aan.


IN/OUT: maakt een lus mogelijk door de in-positie (IN) en
de uit-positie (OUT) te kiezen.
Wanneer de lus actief is (i.e. ingeschakeld):
  − Druk op IN (de drukknop knippert) en draai aan het
     jogwiel om het begin van de lus te verplaatsen.
  − Druk op OUT (de drukknop knippert) en draai aan het
     jogwiel om het einde van de lus te verplaatsen.
Om de lus te verlaten, drukt u op AUTOLOOP encoder.
In DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: deelt de lengte van de actieve lus door
     twee.
  − SHIFT + OUT: vermenigvuldigt de lengte van de
     actieve lus met twee.
  − Lang drukken op IN: schakelt een lus van vier beats in.



                             21
  4. Bedieningen voor trackselectie




BROWSER encoder*:       hiermee    kunt   u    door   uw
muziekbibliotheek bladeren door de encoder naar links
(omhoog) of naar rechts (omlaag) te draaien.
Druk op de encoder om mappen te selecteren en de
geselecteerde track op het daarvoor bestemde deck te
laden.


Verlichte ring:
  − Toont in DJUCED het energieniveau van de
    master-track voor het tempo.
  − Toont in Serato DJ Lite het ritme. De verlichting
    knippert op de maat van de track.
           o Rood: geeft de eerste beat aan.
           o Blauw: geeft de drie volgende beats aan.




                          22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − Geeft in DJUCED het paneel weer met de best
    passende aankomende tracks voor uw mix.
    Om door de lijst met voorgestelde tracks te gaan,
    draait u aan de BROWSER-encoder.
    Om een track te selecteren, drukt u op de
    BROWSER-encoder. De track die al op dit deck is
    geladen, moet worden gepauzeerd.
    Druk op ASSIST./PREP. en draai de encoder om
    het energieniveau van de voorgestelde tracks aan
    te passen.
  − In Serato DJ Lite wordt de track die momenteel
    wordt afgespeeld, toegevoegd aan de Prepare
    (Voorbereiden)-lijst.
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: opent het Prepare
    (Voorbereiden)-paneel.


BACK*: Hiermee kunt u door de boomstructuur in
DJUCED en Serato DJ Lite gaan.
  − In DJUCED drukt u op SHIFT en BACK om terug
    te keren naar de kolom Bibliotheek.




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.
                              23
  5. Tempofader




Tempofader: stelt de afspeelsnelheid van de track in
door de BPM-waarde aan te passen.
  − Omhoog: vertraagt de track.
  − Omlaag: versnelt de track.
  − Tempofader in het midden: de originele snelheid
    van de track. De witte LED gaat branden.


Wanneer de Beatmatch Guide-functie is ingeschakeld,
geeft de visuele begeleiding van TEMPO aan of u de
tempofader omhoog of omlaag moet schuiven om de
track te vertragen of te versnellen. Wanneer de twee
rode pijlen zijn uitgeschakeld, is het tempo op dat deck
gelijk aan het tempo op het andere deck.


Lees de Beatmatch Guide-sectie voor meer informatie
over de Beatmatch Guide-functie.



                          24
In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro kunt u, wanneer de
SYNC-modus is ingeschakeld, de waarden van de
tempofader verplaatsen met behoud van de amplitude
door op SHIFT te drukken en tegelijkertijd de tempofader
te verschuiven.


U kunt bijvoorbeeld met een temposchaal van ±8%, of
16% amplitude, de waarden van de tempofader
verschuiven zodat het bereik van 0% (maximum) naar -
16% (minimum) loopt, wat nog steeds resulteert in 16%
amplitude met -8% in het midden.




                          25
RANGE*: Hiermee kunt u de temposchaal van de
tempofaders veranderen.
  − In    DJUCED:    ± 6 %,     ± 8 %,   ± 10 %,   ± 12 %,
    ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − In Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT     +   RANGE      (KEYLOCK):       vergrendelt     de
muzieksleutel van de track.
Om er zeker van te zijn dat de muzieksleutel
vergrendeld is, drukt u op SHIFT. De RANGE-knop
brandt.




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.
                            26
  6. Pads en modi




Modus-knoppen: hiermee kunt u tot acht modi
inschakelen.
Druk op HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 of SAMPLER 4
om een hoofdmodus in te schakelen.
Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2,
STEM 3 of SAMPLER 4 om een secundaire modus in te
schakelen (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7 en MODE 8).
De modusknop knippert.
De ingeschakelde modi op de pads variëren naargelang
de gebruikte software.


Voor meer informatie over de verschillende modi met
DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro, leest u het
hoofdstuk Modi en pads.


Optreden-pads: een pad voert een actie uit.




                          27
  7. Afspeelmodi




INSTRUMENTAL: Hiermee kunt u alleen de melodie-,
bas- en drumpartijen van een track spelen. Dit is een
snelkoppeling voor de modus Stems.
  − Om alleen de melodie-, bas- en drumpartijen van
    een track af te spelen, drukt u op de drukknop
    INSTRUMENTAL. De drukknop licht op.
  − Om het afspelen van alle delen van een track
    (Vocals, Melody, Bass en Drums) te hervatten, drukt
    u nogmaals op de drukknop INSTRUMENTAL. Het
    lampje van de knop gaat uit.




                          28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: schakelt Slip-modus in. In de
Slip-modus blijft de deck-afspeelkop op de achtergrond
verder schuiven wanneer u een effect of een lus toepast,
een Cue-punt plaatst of wanneer u de jogwielen
gebruikt. Wanneer u stopt met het toepassen van een
effect, wordt het afspelen hervat vanaf de positie waar
de track zou zijn geweest als deze was blijven
doorspelen.
Om ervoor te zorgen dat de Slip-modus is ingeschakeld,
drukt u op SHIFT. De drukknop INSTRUMENTAL
brandt.




Serato DJ Lite heeft geen Slip-modus.
Serato DJ Pro beschikt wel over een Slip-modus.




                          29
VOCAL: hiermee kunt u alleen het vocale gedeelte van
een track afspelen. Dit is een snelkoppeling voor de
modus Stems.
  − Om alleen het vocale gedeelte van een track af te
    spelen, drukt u op de VOCAL-drukknop. De
    drukknop licht op.
  − Om het afspelen van alle delen van een track
    (Vocals, Melody, Bass en Drums) te hervatten, drukt
    u nogmaals op de drukknop VOCAL. Het lampje
    van de knop gaat uit.


SHIFT + VOCAL: schakelt de Quantisatie-modus in. Met
quantisatie kunt u een actie toepassen op de volgende
beat in het raster (de track afspelen, een Cue-punt
plaatsen, een loop starten...).
Druk op SHIFT om te controleren of de Quantisatie-
modus is ingeschakeld. De drukknop VOCAL brandt.




Serato DJ Lite heeft geen Quantisatie-modus.
Serato DJ Pro heeft wel een Quantisatie-modus.




                            30
       (pitch bend -) /   (pitch bend +): hiermee kunt u
het beatraster van de track die op dit deck wordt
afgespeeld handmatig uitlijnen met het beatraster van
het andere deck.
    − Ingedrukt houden          om het deck tijdelijk te
     vertragen.
    − Ingedrukt houden          om het deck tijdelijk te
     versnellen.




In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro kunt u met SHIFT
+        en SHIFT +         instellingen aanpassen in
bepaalde modi (Instellingen).




                           31
Mixen

  8. Monitoren, volume en Beatmatch Guide




MIC volume: past het volume van de microfoon aan.


MIC   verlichte   ring:   geeft     het   niveau   van   het
audiosignaal aan (VU-meter).
  − Uit: er is geen audiosignaal.
  − Groen: het audiosignaal wordt afgespeeld.
  − Rood: het audiosignaal is verzadigd.


MASTER volume: regelt het volume van de mix die op
uw luidsprekers wordt afgespeeld.


MASTER VU meter: toont het niveau van het audiosignaal
van de Master-uitgang (RCA of XLR) voor luidsprekers.


                           32
HEADPHONES volume:
 −        /     : Past het signaal aan dat op uw
     koptelefoon wordt afgespeeld, door de Cue-uitgang
     (monitoring van decks 1 en 2) en de Mix-uitgang
     (Master-uitgang) te mengen.
       o Om alleen naar de monitoring te luisteren, drukt
         u op de monitoringdrukknoppen voor decks 1
         en 2. De drukknoppen lichten op. Zet de knop
         vervolgens op Cue.
       o Om alleen naar de Master-uitgang te luisteren,
         drukt u op de drukknop Master Monitoring. De
         drukknop licht op. Zet de knop vervolgens op
         Mix om de mix aan te passen die op uw
         koptelefoon wordt afgespeeld.
 −        : regelt het volume van de koptelefoonuitgang.




                           33
Monitoring: selecteert de geluidsbron die op uw
koptelefoon wordt afgespeeld.
  −         (bevindt zich onder de MASTER VU-meter):
      speelt het geluid van de mix hardop af voor het
      publiek.
  −       * (bevindt zich aan beide zijden van de knop
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): speelt het geluid van deck 1
      of deck 2 af als de knop Cue/Mix op Cue staat.
Druk in Serato DJ Lite op SHIFT en            * (naast de
drukknop BEATMATCH GUIDE) om het beatraster van
de track die op dit deck wordt afgespeeld te wijzigen.
Om de bewerkingsmodus voor het beatraster te
verlaten, klikt u op Edit Grid (Raster bewerken).




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.
                              34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: schakelt de lichtbegeleidingen in
of uit om het tempo aan te passen en de beatrasters van
de twee tracks af te stemmen. Elk deck heeft vier rode
pijlen.




 DJUCED®legt één van de decks vast als het master-
 synchronisatiedeck (Master Sync) en het andere als
 het slave-deck. De rode pijlen gaan alleen branden op
 het slave-deck omdat dit deck het tempo volgt van het
 master-synchronisatiedeck.
 Serato DJ Lite legt geen master-synchronisatiedeck
 vast. De rode pijlen gaan op beide decks branden. De
 rode pijlen lichten op beide decks op.




                           35
− TEMPO visuele begeleidingen: als één van de twee
  rode pijlen rechts van een tempofader brandt,
  betekent dit dat het tempo (d.w.z de BPM) van de
  track die wordt afgespeeld op dit deck afwijkt van
  het tempo van het andere deck.
  De pijlen geven de richting aan waarin u de
  tempofader moet verschuiven om het tempo van de
  track die wordt afgespeeld aan te passen aan het
  tempo op het andere deck.
        o Pijl omhoog gaat branden: beweeg de
          tempofader omhoog. Dit zal het tempo
          vertragen.
        o Pijl omlaag gaat branden: beweeg de
          tempofader omlaag. Dit zal het tempo
          versnellen.
        o Pijlen branden niet: het tempo van het
          deck is identiek aan het tempo van het
          master synchronisatie-deck.




                        36
− BEAT ALIGN visuele begeleidingen: als één van de
  twee rode pijlen onder een jogwiel brandt, betekent
  dit dat de BPM van de track die wordt afgespeeld
  op dit deck afwijkt van de BPM van het andere
  deck.
  De pijlen geven de richting aan waarin u het jogwiel
  moet verdraaien om de BPM van de track die wordt
  afgespeeld aan te passen aan de BPM van het
  andere deck.
          o Pijl links brandt: draai het jogwiel met de
            klok mee. Dit verhoogt de afspeelsnelheid.
          o Pijl rechts brandt: draai het jogwiel tegen
            de klok in. Dit verlaagt de afspeelsnelheid.
          o Pijlen branden niet: het tempo van het
            deck is afgestemd op het tempo van het
            andere deck.




                           37
  9. Mixgedeelte




GAIN-draaiknop*: past de versterking aan (d.w.z. het
volumeniveau vóór de volumefader).


3-bands equalizer (EQ)*: regelt de intensiteit van de
EQ.    Een     draaiknop     is   gekoppeld     aan       elk
frequentiebereik: HIGH, MID en LOW.


FILTER-draaiknop*: past de frequentie aan van het
dubbele filter (high-pass en low-pass).




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.
                              38
  10.       Mengpaneel




VU-meter: toont de sterkte van het audiosignaal van
deck 1 en 2.


Volumefader*: past het volume aan van het deck.


Crossfader: hiermee kunt u een overgang maken tussen
twee tracks door het volume van een van de decks te
verhogen terwijl u het volume van het andere deck
verlaagt.
  − Crossfader helemaal naar links: u hoort alleen de
     track op deck 1.
  − Crossfader helemaal naar rechts: u hoort alleen de
     track op deck 2.
  − Crossfader in het midden: u hoort de tracks
     tegelijkertijd op deck 1 en deck 2.
                             39
Curve switch: Hiermee kunt u de crossfadercurve
aanpassen.
  −       (mix): progressief mengen van de twee decks.
  −       (scratch): zeer snel mengen van de twee decks.
  −       (uitgeschakeld): crossfader uitgeschakeld, om
      alleen met de volumefaders te mixen.




In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro kunt u de
crossfader-instellingen wijzigen. Ga naar Instellingen,
vervolgens naar Mengpaneel:
 − Power: snelle curve om te scratchen.
 − Linear: progressieve curve om te mixen.
 − Reverse: Keert de richting van de crossfader om,
   ook bekend als de "Hamster" modus.




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.

                            40
  11.    Effecten




Om het effectenrek weer te geven:
  − In DJUCED: klik op          .
  − In Serato DJ Lite: klik op           .


Effectendrukknoppen         /        /       *: Hiermee kunt u een
effect uit het effectenrek selecteren. De drukknop licht op.
Gebruik de prestatiehendel om een effect in te
schakelen.
Om de effecten die bij de knoppen                   /        /    horen te
wijzigen, selecteert u een nieuw effect in het effectenrek.
In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro kunt u ook op SHIFT
en   ,    of    drukken om de lijst met effecten weer te
geven en vervolgens op SHIFT en                 ,       of       nogmaals
drukken om door de lijst te gaan en het nieuwe effect te
selecteren.




In Serato DJ Lite:
− Het is mogelijk om meerdere effecten tegelijkertijd
  te combineren.

                                41
− De drie effecten     /   /        links zijn van toepassing
  op het linker deck (deck 1), en de drie effecten          /
      /     rechts zijn van toepassing op het rechter
  deck (deck 2).
In Serato DJ Pro zijn de twee groepen van drie
effectknoppen van toepassing op de twee virtuele decks.


Performance hendel*: hiermee kunt u een effect
activeren dat is geladen op knoppen          ,    or   . Er zijn
drie verschillende posities:
  − HOLD: schakelt het effect continu in terwijl de
      hendel in deze stand staat.
  − ON: schakelt het effect tijdelijk in terwijl de hendel in
      deze stand staat.
  − Centrale positie: effect uitgeschakeld.


DEPTH-drukknop: hiermee past u de intensiteit van het
effect aan.


  /       drukknoppen: past de duur van de cyclus van
het effect aan, gesynchroniseerd met de muziek.




DJUCED heeft deze functionaliteit niet.




*De functionaliteit is hetzelfde voor deck 1 en deck 2.
                               42
Aansluitingen




  12.   Master-uitgang voor speakers (uitgang 1-2)
  13.   Gebalanceerde microfooningang
  14.   USB-B 2.0-poort
  15.   POWER-knop
  16.   Connector voor voedingsadapter
  17.   Koptelefoonuitgang (uitgang 3-4)


Master-uitgang voor speakers (uitgang 1-2): hiermee
kunt u actieve speakers aansluiten.
Type: 2 x ongebalanceerde RCA (Cinch) en 2 x
gebalanceerde XLR.


Gebalanceerde microfooningang: Hiermee kunt u een
gebalanceerde      of    ongebalanceerde    microfoon
aansluiten.
Type: 6,35 mm jack.


                           43
USB-B 2.0-poort:     Hiermee kunt      u de controller
aansluiten op een computer.


POWER button: Hiermee kunt u de controller van
DJControl Inpulse T7 in- en uitschakelen.


Connector voor voedingsadapter: Hiermee kunt u de
voedingskabel aansluiten en de DJControl Inpulse T7
controller in een stopcontact steken met behulp van de
adapter.


Koptelefoonuitgang (uitgang 3-4): hiermee kunt u de
koptelefoon aansluiten om tracks te monitoren.
Type: 3,5 mm stereo mini-jack-connector en 6,35 mm
stereo jack-connector.




                           44
Schuif de vier intrekbare voetjes uit om de DJControl
Inpulse T7-controller omhoog te brengen en de kabels
eronderdoor te laten lopen.




− Trek de voetjes in voordat u de DJControl Inpulse
  T7-controller vervoert.
− Trek de voetjes in als u de DJControl Inpulse T7-
  controller niet gebruikt.
− Wanneer de voetjes zijn uitgeschoven, mag u niet
  meer dan 5 kg / 50 newton op de DJControl Inpulse
  T7-controller drukken.




                              45
 4.     Installatie

Aansluitingen
 1. Sluit de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller aan op uw
   computer.
 2. Sluit de voedingskabel aan op de voedingsadapter
   en steek de stekker in een stopcontact.
 3. Sluit de USB-kabel aan op de DJControl Inpulse T7-
   controller en op de computer.
 4. Druk op de POWER-knop op de DJControl Inpulse
   T7-controller. De knop wordt ingedrukt.
 5. Zorg ervoor dat de speakers zijn uitgeschakeld of,
   als ze op een externe versterker zijn aangesloten,
   dat de versterker is uitgeschakeld. Sluit de ingangen
   van uw actieve speakers aan op de Master-
   uitgangen voor de speakers van de DJControl
   Inpulse T7-controller (2 x RCA of 2 x XLR).
 6. Stel het MASTER-volume in op het minimumniveau
   op de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller en schakel
   vervolgens de speakers in.
 7. Plaats de koptelefoon om uw nek (en niet op uw
   oren) en sluit de koptelefoon aan op de 3,5 mm
   mini-jack connector of de 6,35 mm jack connector.
 8. Sluit de microfoon aan op de Microfooningang
   (optioneel).




                         46
                 Stroomvoorziening
− Gebruik   alleen   de    stroomvoorziening          zoals
  aangegeven in de gebruiksaanwijzing.
− Gebruik   de   stroomvoorziening      alleen   met    de
  netwerkspanning    en   -frequentie     die    op     het
  typeplaatje van de stroomvoorziening vermeld staan.



                          47
− Het is mogelijk om beide uitgangtypes (XLR en
 RCA) tegelijkertijd te gebruiken — bijvoorbeeld door
 een uitgangspaar op het PA-systeem aan te sluiten
 en een tweede uitgangspaar op monitorspeakers.
− Telkens wanneer u de DJControl Inpulse T7-
 controller op uw computer aansluit, start een LED-
 verlichtingsreeks, Vegas-modus genaamd. Vegas-
 modus gebeurt in vier fasen, waardoor alle LED's
 oplichten en verschillende mogelijke kleuren op de
 pads en op de verlichte ringen van de BROWSER-
 encoders worden weergegeven.




                        48
De software downloaden

DJUCED

 1. Ga naar: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Download en installeer DJUCED®.
 3. Ga naar:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in het Engels).
 4. Download en installeer de driverbundel voor het
   besturingssysteem van uw computer.
          o macOS®: HDJCSeries Mac
          o Windows®: HDJCSeries PC
    Windows® heeft de drivers nodig om de DJControl
    Inpulse T7 in ASIO-modus te kunnen gebruiken. In
    deze modus is de vertraging (latency) minder dan
    in WASAPI-modus. Bovendien is de ASIO-modus
    meestal stabieler.
    De drivers zorgen er ook voor dat u de DJControl
    Inpulse T7 kunt testen en de firmwareversie kunt
    controleren, in zowel Windows® als macOS®.
 5. Start de DJUCED software. Er verschijnt een
   dialoogvenster dat aangeeft dat uw DJControl
   Inpulse T7-controller is gedetecteerd en klaar is
   voor gebruik.




                          49
 Wanneer u de software voor het eerst gebruikt, begeleidt
 DJUCED® u bij het aansluiten van uw koptelefoon en
 actieve speakers (of laat u de speakers in uw
 laptop/computer gebruiken als u geen externe actieve
 speakers gebruikt). Volg stap voor stap de aanwijzingen
 op het scherm om aan de slag te gaan.

Audio-instellingen:

Klik in DJUCED® op het tandwielsymbool              in de
rechterbovenhoek van het scherm om de instellingen van
de geluidskaart te wijzigen. Het menu Instellingen wordt
weergegeven.
Selecteer het tabblad Audio om de audioversterker te
kiezen en wijs de uitgangen voor koptelefoons en speakers
toe.


De standaard-setup voor Windows® is als volgt:
  − Audio device (Audioapparaat): DJControl Inpulse T7
       ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Uitgang):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                           50
De standaard-setup voor macOS® is als volgt:
  − Audio device (Audioapparaat): DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Uitgang):
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Ga naar: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Download en installeer Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Ga naar:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in het Engels).
 4. Download en installeer de driverbundel voor het
   besturingssysteem van uw computer.
          o macOS®: HDJCSeries Mac
          o Windows®: HDJCSeries PC
    Windows® heeft de drivers nodig om de DJControl
    Inpulse T7 in ASIO-modus te kunnen gebruiken. In
    deze modus is de vertraging (latency) minder dan
    in WASAPI-modus. Bovendien is de ASIO-modus
    meestal stabieler.
    De drivers zorgen er ook voor dat u de DJControl
    Inpulse T7 kunt testen en de firmwareversie kunt
    controleren, in zowel Windows® als macOS®.




                          52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 bevat een licentie voor
Serato DJ Lite, geen licentie voor Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite kan zonder tijdsbeperking worden
gebruikt.
Als u Serato DJ Pro installeert in plaats van Serato DJ
Lite, werkt Serato DJ Pro met uw DJControl
Inpulse T7 gedurende een proefperiode. Aan het
einde van deze proefperiode moet u een Serato DJ
Pro-licentie aanschaffen als u Serato DJ Pro wilt
blijven gebruiken.




                          53
  5.     Breng extra leven in uw mix
Er zijn verschillende manieren om uw mix krachtiger te
maken.



Modi en pads

De pads

In DJUCED voeren pads 1-8 de acties uit die
overeenkomen met de modus die momenteel is
ingeschakeld.


In Serato DJ Lite voeren pads 1-4 de acties uit die
overeenkomen met de modus die momenteel is
ingeschakeld. Pads 5-8 voeren de volgende acties uit:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (achteruit afspelen)
  − Pad 6: terugspoelen
  − Pad 7: versneld afspelen
  − Pad 8: Censor. Met deze actie speelt u de track
    achteruit af als u de pad ingedrukt houdt. Wanneer
    u de pad loslaat wordt het afspelen hervat vanaf de
    positie waar de track zou zijn geweest als deze was
    blijven doorspelen. Dit kan bijvoorbeeld worden
    gebruikt om ongewenst taalgebruik in een track te
    maskeren.




                          54
De modi die op de pads worden ingeschakeld, zijn
afhankelijk van de gebruikte software:


 Modi    DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1      Hot Cue        Hot Cue             Hot Cue

   2      Loop Roll     Auto Loop         Auto Loop
   3       Stems          Stems               Stems
   4      Sampler        Sampler             Sampler
   5      TonePlay           –             Pitch Play
   6       PadFX             –               Loop Roll
   7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop       Manual Loop
   8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks     Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro-licentie niet meegeleverd.




                           55
Hot Cue-modus

Een Hot Cue-punt is een markering (zoals een
boekenlegger) die u op een plek in een track kunt zetten
zodat u dit punt in de track later makkelijk kunt
terugvinden en er naar terug kunt gaan.


In DJUCED kunnen per track acht Hot Cue-punten
worden ingesteld.


In Serato DJ Lite kunnen per track vier Hot Cue-punten
worden ingesteld.
In Serato DJ Pro kunnen per track acht Hot Cue-punten
worden ingesteld.


  1. Om de Hot Cue-modus in te schakelen, drukt u op
    HOT CUE. De verlichting van de HOT CUE-knop
    blijft branden.
  2. Om een Hot Cue-punt in te stellen, drukt u op een
    pad.
  3. Om de track vanaf een Hot Cue-punt af te spelen,
    drukt u op de bijbehorende pad.
  4. Om een Hot Cue-punt te verwijderen, drukt u
    tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en de pad.




                           56
Loop-modus




In DJUCED komt deze modus overeen met de Loop
Roll-modus. De deck-afspeelkop op de achtergrond
verder schuiven wanneer u een lus toepast. Wanneer
u de lus uitschakelt, wordt het afspelen hervat vanaf
de positie waar de track zou zijn geweest als deze
was blijven doorspelen.
In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro komt deze modus
overeen met de Auto Loop-modus.


Een lus is een gedeelte van een track dat steeds
opnieuw wordt afgespeeld.
  1. Om de Loop-modus in te schakelen, drukt u op
    LOOP 2. De verlichting van de LOOP 2-knop blijft
    branden.

In DJUCED:
  2. Om een lus toe te passen, houdt u een pad
    ingedrukt.
  3. Om een lus uit te schakelen, laat u de bijbehorende
    pad los.

In Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Om een lus toe te passen, drukt u op een pad.
  3. Om een lus uit te schakelen, drukt u op de
    bijbehorende pad.
                            57
Luslengte:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2     DJUCED         Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1        Een-zestiende        Eén tel
                         tel
       Pad 2        Eén-achtste tel    Twee tellen
       Pad 3           Kwart tel        Vier tellen
       Pad 4           Halve tel        Acht tellen
       Pad 5           Eén tel               -
       Pad 6         Twee tellen             -
       Pad 7          Vier tellen            -
       Pad 8          Acht tellen            -




                        58
Stems-modus

In Serato DJ Lite kunt u met de Stems-modus een track
opsplitsen    in     vier   verschillende   delen     (zang   en
instrumenten). Deze delen, of lagen, worden stems
genoemd.


  1. Om de Stems-modus in te schakelen, drukt u op
    STEMS 3. De verlichting van de STEMS 3-knop
    blijft branden.
  2. Pads 1-4 worden elk geassocieerd met een stem.
    Om het afspelen van een stem te stoppen, laat u de
    bijbehorende pad los. De verlichting van de pad
    gaat uit.
  3. Om het afspelen van de stem te hervatten, drukt u
    op bijbehorende pad. De padverlichting gaat
    branden.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                         Stem

             Pad 1                           Zang
             Pad 2                          Melodie
             Pad 3                           Bas
             Pad 4                          Drums




                                59
Wanneer u voor de eerste keer stems in een track
inschakelt, is de scheiding niet altijd onmiddellijk. Dit
kan enkele ogenblikken duren, terwijl de DJ-software
de track analyseert en de verschillende onderdelen
genereert (zang, melodie, bas, drums).


Vergeet niet om voldoende tijd te laten tussen het
moment waarop u de stems scheidt en het moment
waarop u ze afspeelt. Zodra de verschillende
onderdelen voor de stems zijn gegenereerd, kunt u de
stems onmiddellijk afspelen.


Een krachtige computer is vereist om de Stems-
modus te kunnen gebruiken.




                            60
Sampler-modus

Een sample is een kort geluid dat afgespeeld wordt over
de track die momenteel wordt afgespeeld. Een sample
kan    eenmalig         (jingle)       of   herhaald   (lus)    worden
afgespeeld.


In DJUCED speelt u met pad 1-8 de acht samples af
die op de eerste twee regels staan van de meerlaagse
sampler.
Om de meerlaagse sampler weer te geven, selecteert u
2Decks       Horizontal            +        2   Samplers       in   het
vervolgkeuzemenu in het linkerbovengedeelte van het
scherm in DJUCED.


In Serato DJ Lite speelt u met pads 1-4 een sample af.
Klik op     in Serato DJ Lite om het samples-paneel weer
te geven.


  1. Om de Sampler-modus in te schakelen, drukt u op
      SAMPLER 4. De verlichting van de SAMPLER 4-knop
      blijft branden.
  2. Om een sample af te spelen, drukt u op een pad.
  3. Om het afspelen van een sample te stoppen, drukt
      u tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en de bijbehorende pad.




                                       61
Modus 5




Serato DJ Lite heeft geen modus 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro biedt, in combinatie met de Pitch 'n
Time-plug-in, een Pitch Play-modus die werkt volgens
hetzelfde principe als de TonePlay-modus.


In DJUCED komt modus 5 overeen met de TonePlay-
modus. Met deze modus kunt u een Hot Cue-punt in
verschillende toonsoorten afspelen.


  1. Schakel de Hot Cue-modus in en selecteer
    vervolgens een Hot Cue-punt.
  2. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en HOT CUE 1 voor
    toegang tot modus 5. De HOT CUE 1-knop knippert.
  3. Om de toonsoort van een Hot Cue-punt te wijzigen,
    drukt u op een van de pads 2-8.
  4. Om terug te gaan naar de oorspronkelijke toonsoort,
    drukt u op pad 1.




                          62
De toonsoort wijzigen:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2              Toonsoort

          Pad 1           Oorspronkelijke toonsoort
          Pad 2                     +1
          Pad 3                     +2
          Pad 4                     +3
          Pad 5                      -1
          Pad 6                      -2
          Pad 7                      -3
          Pad 8                      -4




                         63
Modus 6




Serato DJ Lite heeft geen modus 6.


In DJUCED komt modus 6 overeen met de PadFX-
modus. In deze modus kunt u de effecten in het
effectenrek bedienen met de pads.
Een effect is soms een filter of een combinatie van filters
die op een track wordt toegepast om het geluid ervan te
wijzigen (echo, galm...).


Om het effectenrek weer te geven, klikt u op     .


  1. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en LOOP 2 voor
    toegang tot modus 6. De LOOP 2-knop knippert.
  2. Om een actie uit te voeren, drukt u op een pad.
  3. Om een effect uit te schakelen, drukt u op het
    bijbehorende pad (pad 1 tot en met 3).




                            64
Mogelijke acties:

Deck 1 / Deck                  Effecten

    Pad 1                Effect 1 van het rek
    Pad 2                Effect 2 van het rek
    Pad 3                Effect 3 van het rek
    Pad 4           Toont/verbergt het effectenrek
    Pad 5             Wijzigt effect 1 in het rek
    Pad 6             Wijzigt effect 2 in het rek
    Pad 7             Wijzigt effect 3 in het rek
    Pad 8                          -




                          65
Modus 7




In DJUCED komt modus 7 overeen met de Slicer
Loop-modus. In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro komt
modus 7 overeen met de Manual Loop-modus.


In DJUCED komt modus 7 overeen met de Slicer Loop-
modus. In deze modus kunt u de actieve lus in acht
secties snijden.


  1. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en STEMS 3 voor
    toegang tot modus 7 (Slicer Loop). De STEMS 3-
    knop knippert.
  2. Om een sectie als een lus af te spelen, houdt u een
    pad ingedrukt.
  3. Om het afspelen van een lus te stoppen, laat u de
    bijbehorende pad los.




                            66
In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro komt modus 7
overeen met de Manual Loop-modus. In deze modus
kunt u handmatig een lus inschakelen.


  1. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en STEMS 3 voor
    toegang tot modus 7 (Manual Loop). De STEMS 3-
    knop knippert.
  2. Om een actie uit te voeren, drukt u op een pad.


Mogelijke acties:

   Deck 1/2                          Effecten

     Pad 1           Eerste druk op de knop: stelt het in-
                                    punt (IN) in
                     Tweede druk op de knop: wijzigt het
                                    in-punt (IN)
     Pad 2           Eerste druk op de knop: stelt het uit-
                                   punt (OUT) in
                     Tweede druk op de knop: wijzigt het
                                uit-punt (OUT)
     Pad 3                   Schakelt de lus in/uit
     Pad 4            Verplaatst de afspeelkop naar het
                     begin van de lus en speelt de lus af
                                     (Reloop)

 AUTOLOOP-          Verhoogt/verlaagt de lengte van de lus
   encoder




                              67
Modus 8




In   DJUCED      komt   modus 8      overeen    met     de
BeatJump-modus. In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro
komt modus 8 overeen met de Scratch Banks-modus.


In DJUCED komt modus 8 overeen met de BeatJump-
modus. Met deze modus kunt u een nauwkeurige sprong
in de track maken.


  1. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en SAMPLER 4 voor
     toegang tot modus 8 (BeatJump). De SAMPLER 4-
     knop knippert.
  2. Om een sprong te maken, drukt u op een pad.


Lengte van de sprong:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Sprong

          Pad 1                  1 tel terug springen
          Pad 2                 1 tel vooruit springen
          Pad 3                2 tellen terug springen
          Pad 4                2 tellen vooruit springen
          Pad 5                4 tellen terug springen
          Pad 6                4 tellen vooruit springen
          Pad 7                8 tellen terug springen
          Pad 8                8 tellen vooruit springen
                          68
In Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro komt modus 8
overeen met de Scratch Banks-modus. Met deze modus
kunt u direct een scratch-sample op het deck laden om
op het jogwiel te scratchen in plaats van de track die
momenteel      wordt   afgespeeld     en    vervolgens    snel
terugkeren     naar    de   track   die    momenteel     wordt
afgespeeld.
Klik op       in Serato DJ Lite om het scratch-samples-
paneel weer te geven.


  1. Druk tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en SAMPLER 4 voor
    toegang      tot   modus    8   (Scratch    Banks).    De
    SAMPLER 4-knop knippert.
  2. Om een scratch-sample af te spelen, drukt u op een
    pad.
  3. Om te stoppen met het afspelen van een scratch-
    sample en terug te keren naar de track die eerder
    werd afgespeeld, drukt u tegelijkertijd op SHIFT en
    de bijbehorende pad.


Samples:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2                        Sample

           Pad 1                            Ahh!
           Pad 2                          Hey You!
           Pad 3                           Oww!
           Pad 4                           Yeah!


                               69
Scratchen
Scratchen is het maken van een geluidseffect van een
track door aan het jogwiel te draaien.


Zet uw wijsvinger bovenop het jogwiel en maak kleine,
snelle bewegingen naar rechts en naar links.


U kunt deze scratch meerdere malen herhalen om zo
een ritme te creëren.




 − Voordat u gaat scratchen of mixen, moet u ervoor
   zorgen dat u een vilten slipmat tussen het jogwiel
   en de vinylplaat hebt geplaatst.
 − Forceer de vinylplaat niet wanneer u deze op het
   jogwiel plaatst. U loopt het risico om het midden van
   de vinylplaat te beschadigen.




                           70
Filters
Door het filter van de track aan te passen, kunt u
sommige frequenties verzwakken.


  − De hoge frequenties verzwakken (bekend als een
    low-pass filter of high-cut filter): draai de filterknop
    (FILTER) naar links.
  − De lage frequenties verzwakken (bekend als een
    high-pass filter of low-cut filter): draai de filterknop
    (FILTER) naar rechts.




                            71
  6.     Meerkanaals audioversterker
De     DJControl   Inpulse    T7-controller    heeft   een
ingebouwde meerkanaals audioversterker zodat u de
mix voor het publiek over de speakers (Master-uitgang
voor speakers) kunt afspelen en de track die als
volgende    afgespeeld   gaat     worden      vooraf   kunt
beluisteren op de koptelefoon (koptelefoonuitgang).




                             72
Master-uitgang               voor            speakers
(uitgang 1-2)
Uw actieve speakers moeten worden aangesloten op
één van de twee Master-uitgangen voor speakers op de
achterkant van uw DJ-controller.




Het    is   mogelijk   om        beide   uitgangsformaten
tegelijkertijd te gebruiken — bijvoorbeeld door een
uitgangspaar op het PA-systeem aan te sluiten en een
tweede uitgangspaar op monitorspeakers.



                            73
Koptelefoonuitgang (uitgang 3-4)
Uw koptelefoon moet worden aangesloten op één van
de twee koptelefoonuitgangen       op de voorkant van
uw DJ-controller.




Standaard wordt de koptelefoonuitgang toegewezen aan
uitgang 3-4 elke keer dat uw DJ-controller wordt
aangesloten. Hierdoor kan het apparaat werken met alle
DJ-software op de markt, inclusief en met name
DJUCED® en Serato DJ Lite.


Als u echter de koptelefoonuitgangen van uw DJ-
controller wilt gebruiken om muziek op uw computer te
beluisteren met bijvoorbeeld iTunes, moet u uitgang 1-2
toewijzen aan de koptelefoonuitgang. Dit doet u door de
     drukknop in te drukken onder de Master VU-meter.


                          74
Wij raden af om twee koptelefoons tegelijk aan te
sluiten   (d.w.z.   één    op        de   3,5   mm   mini-jack
uitgangsconnector en één op de 6,35 mm jack
uitgangsconnector).       Als    beide     koptelefoons   niet
dezelfde impedantie hebben, zullen ze verschillende
uitgangsvolumes hebben.




                                75
Microfooningang
Uw   microfoon   moet   worden    aangesloten     op   de
Microfooningang aan de achterkant van uw DJ-
controller. De microfooningang is gebalanceerd.




                          76
U kunt een gebalanceerde of ongebalanceerde
microfoon aansluiten.
Een   gebalanceerde             microfoon      produceert    een
helderder,      krachtiger            geluid     met    minder
ademhalingseffecten.            Als      uw      gebalanceerde
microfoon     niet      met     een     gebalanceerde       kabel
verbonden       is,       zal    uw       microfoonkabel      de
geluidskwaliteit van uw microfoon verminderen.




                      Gebalanceerde kabel

             Tip (Punt)
                  Ring

        Sleeve (Huls)




                 Ongebalanceerde kabel


             Tip (Punt)


        Sleeve (Huls)




                                 77
  7.       Compatibiliteit

USB Audio / USB MIDI

Dit is een Plug & Play-product dat met DJUCED zonder
drivers op elke PC en Mac kan werken. Het is compatibel
met de standaarden voor USB Audio en USB MIDI.



ASIO- en Windows®-bedieningspaneel
Om de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller met Serato DJ
Lite te kunnen gebruiken, moet u de ASIO-drivers
installeren. De ASIO-drivers zijn beschikbaar op:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Als u DJUCED gebruikt, kunt u ook de ASIO-drivers
downloaden om te profiteren van een kleinere vertraging
bij het gebruik op uw PC.


De       ASIO-drivers   worden    geleverd    met   een
bedieningspaneel dat te vinden is in de taakbalk van de
PC of in de map C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\
Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2. In dit bedieningspaneel
configureert u de verschillende ASIO-instellingen zoals
buffergrootte en vertraging.




                            78
Om de ASIO-instellingen aan te passen:
  − Stel de ASIO-buffergrootte in op 4 of 8 ms.
  − Start uw applicatie (bijv.: DJUCED®) en selecteer de
    DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)-driver:




Zodra de applicatie de ASIO-driver gaat gebruiken,
kunnen de ASIO-instellingen niet meer worden gewijzigd
in het bedieningspaneel. Dit is volstrekt normaal en
betekent dat de ASIO-driver in gebruik is.




                           79
Gebruik uw software en luister naar afwijkingen zoals
vertragingen, haperingen, tikken en uitval. Mochten deze
haperingen of afwijkingen zich voordoen, dan moet u de
buffergrootte aanpassen om de problemen op te lossen.


Sluit uw applicatie en pas de ASIO-buffer één stap per
keer aan:
  − Verklein de buffer als u minder vertraging wilt.
  − Vergroot de buffer als u onregelmatigheden in het
    geluid hoort.


Herhaal     deze    procedure     totdat   u   de   optimale
buffergrootte voor uw systeem hebt gevonden.


De drivers zijn beschikbaar op:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                            80
Firmware-update
Uw DJ-controller beschikt over een modus voor het
automatisch bijwerken van de firmware. Hiervoor moet u
de Hercules-drivers installeren en de aanwijzingen op
het scherm volgen. De firmware wordt automatisch
bijgewerkt.


De drivers zijn beschikbaar op:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Deze informatie en de geïnstalleerde driverversies zijn
ook te bekijken in de ABOUT-tab (OVER) van het
bedieningspaneel. U hebt deze informatie nodig als u
contact opneemt met de technische ondersteuning van
Hercules.




                           81
De        DJ-controller        testen       in        het
bedieningspaneel
In     het   gedeelte   ABOUT     (OVER)        van   het
bedieningspaneel van de DJControl Inpulse T7 kunt u
het geluid, de MIDI-bediening en de verlichting van uw
DJ-controller testen, samen met de jogwielen.


Ga naar de volgende map om het bedieningspaneel te
openen: C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\.

     1. Audiotest

Om te testen of de audio-interface van de DJControl
Inpulse T7-controller geluid produceert (zonder hiervoor
DJ-software te gebruiken), klikt u op het speakers
pictogram. Het pictogram wordt groen tijdens de test en
het programma speelt een geluid af op de Master-
uitgangen voor speakers en koptelefoons.




                          82
  2. MIDI-bedieningstest

Om te testen of de MIDI-besturingselementen van de
DJControl Inpulse T7-controller werken (zonder DJ-
software te gebruiken om dit te doen), probeert u de
knoppen of andere besturingselementen te gebruiken
die u wilt testen. Als het pictogram van de DIN-connector
groen wordt, betekent dit dat het MIDI-commando
ontvangen wordt en dat de knop of andere bediening
goed werkt.




                           83
  3. Verlichtingstest

Om te testen of de LED's van de DJControl Inpulse T7-
controller werken (zonder hiervoor DJ-software te
gebruiken), klikt u op het gloeilamppictogram om de
LED's van de controller te laten oplichten. Het pictogram
wordt groen tijdens de test en de LED's van de controller
gaan branden.




U kunt ook alle LED's van de DJControl Inpulse T7-
controller laten oplichten door tegelijkertijd op de
knoppen IN en OUT op beide decks te drukken.




                           84
  4. Jogwielentest

Om te testen of de jogwielen van de DJControl Inpulse
T7-controller werken (zonder hiervoor DJ-software te
gebruiken), klikt u op het pictogram voor jogwiel 1 of 2.
De pictogrammen voor het bijbehorende jogwiel en de
DIN-connector worden groen tijdens de test en het
jogwiel beweegt (d.w.z. draait) op de controller.


Test van jogwiel nummer 1:




Test van jogwiel nummer 2:




                            85
  8.    Demo-modus
Deze modus is beschikbaar wanneer u het apparaat
aansluit op een USB-voedingsadapter. De demo-modus
wordt voornamelijk gebruikt in winkels. In de demo-
modus is het apparaat niet operationeel. In plaats
daarvan wordt permanent een demo herhaald die de
verlichtingsmogelijkheden        van   de   controller
demonstreert.




                            86
  9.     FAQs

 1.      Er komt geen geluid uit mijn
      koptelefoon.
Controleer dat de koptelefoon is aangesloten op de
voorkant van het apparaat omdat de meerkanaals
audioversterker in het apparaat is voorgeconfigureerd
om te werken met DJUCED® en Serato DJ Lite.
Standaard zijn de twee drukknoppen voor het monitoren
ingeschakeld wanneer de applicatie voor het eerst wordt
gestart. U kunt dan kiezen welk deck u op de
koptelefoon wilt beluisteren of u kunt op de     -knop
onder de MASTER VU-meter drukken om naar de
resultaten van uw mix te luisteren.




                           87
  2.      Het geluid op mijn koptelefoon
    is vervormd of te zacht.
Controleer dat uw koptelefoon een TRS-connector
(standaard koptelefoon) heeft en niet een TRRS-
connector (koptelefoon + microfoon).


          Tip (Tip)                       Tip (Tip)
              Ring                        Ring
                                          Ring
  Sleeve (Schacht)
                                          Sleeve (Schacht)




TRRS-connectoren      zijn   niet   compatibel        met    de
DJControl Inpulse T7-controller.




                             88
  3.    Er komt geen geluid uit mijn
    speakers.
Controleer dat de speakers zijn aangesloten op de RCA-
of XLR-connectoren achterop de DJ-controller omdat de
meerkanaals audioversterker in de DJ-controller is
voorgeconfigureerd om te werken met DJUCED® en
Serato DJ Lite.


Om te testen (zonder DJ-software te gebruiken) of de
audioversterker van de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller
geluid produceert, kunt u het bedieningspaneel van de
DJ-controller bekijken. Klik op het tabblad ABOUT
(OVER) en klik vervolgens op het speakerpictogram. Het
pictogram wordt groen wanneer geluid wordt afgespeeld.




                         89
 4.      Er komt geen geluid uit de
      speakers van mijn laptop.
Uw product is uitgerust met een vooraf geconfigureerde
meerkanaals audioversterker. Als u de speakers wilt
gebruiken die in uw laptop zijn ingebouwd:
  − Ga in DJUCED® naar de instellingen en vink de
      optie SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS
      (MASTER-SIGNAAL      VERZENDEN         NAAR   DE
      COMPUTERSPEAKER) aan.




  − Open in Serato DJ Lite de instellingen, open het
      tabblad Audio en vink de optie Use laptopspeakers
      (Laptopspeakers gebruiken) aan.




                           90
 5.       Er komt geen geluid uit mijn
      koptelefoon of uit de speakers van
      mijn laptop.
Standaard komt het geluid uit de Master-uitgang voor
speakers en de koptelefoonuitgang. Het is dan ook
normaal dat er geen geluid uit uw laptop komt.


Als u de speakers wilt gebruiken die in uw laptop zijn
ingebouwd:
  − Ga in DJUCED® naar de instellingen en vink de
      optie SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS
      (MASTER-SIGNAAL       VERZENDEN       NAAR     DE
      COMPUTERSPEAKER)          aan.    U    moet    uw
      koptelefoon aansluiten op de DJControl Inpulse T7-
      controller.




                           91
  − Open in Serato DJ Lite de instellingen, open het
    tabblad Audio en vink de optie Use laptopspeakers
    (Laptopspeakers gebruiken) aan. U moet uw
    koptelefoon aansluiten op de DJControl Inpulse T7-
    controller.




Om te testen (zonder DJ-software te gebruiken) of de
audioversterker van de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller
geluid produceert, kunt u het bedieningspaneel van de
DJ-controller bekijken. Klik op het tabblad ABOUT
(OVER) en klik vervolgens op het speakerpictogram. Het
pictogram wordt groen wanneer geluid wordt afgespeeld.




                         92
  6.     Ik    heb      problemen           met       de
    geluidskwaliteit op Windows®.

Het volume van de track die wordt afgespeeld
is te laag

Het mastervolume van de DJ-software is onafhankelijk
van de volumeregelaars op de DJ-controller. Daarom
zal, zolang het mastervolume van de DJ-software laag
is, het volume van de Master-uitgang ook laag zijn.

Controleer het volume van de DJ-software en verhoog
het indien nodig.

  − Gebruik in DJUCED de volumeknop in de balk
    rechtsboven in het venster.




  − Gebruik in Serato DJ Lite de volumeknop in de balk
    rechtsboven in het venster.




                           93
Het volume van mijn koptelefoon is te laag

Ga in Serato DJ Lite naar de instellingen, open het
tabblad Audio en vink het vakje uit bij (d.w.z.
deselecteer) Use Laptop Speakers (Laptopluidsprekers
gebruiken).




                        94
Als     u      het     vakje     Use      Laptop       Speakers
(Laptopluidsprekers       gebruiken)      aangevinkt     (d.w.z.
geselecteerd) wilt houden, stel dan de ingebouwde
geluidskaart     van    de     computer   in   als   “Computer
luidsprekers”:
  1. Sluit de Serato DJ Lite-software.
  2. Ga naar de Windows instellingen en ga naar
      System (Systeem) en dan naar Sound (Geluid).
  3. Selecteer onder Output (Uitgang) de ingebouwde
      geluidskaart van de computer. Uw DJ-controller
      mag niet langer als uitgang zijn ingesteld.




Windows® heeft uw DJ-controller mogelijk ingesteld als
de Windows®-geluidskaart. Als u deze instelling behoudt,
kan      de      instelling      Use      Laptop       Speakers
(Laptopluidsprekers       gebruiken)      de   Master-uitgang
afspelen op de 4-kanaals uitgang van uw DJ-controller
(Master-uitgang + koptelefoon).




                                95
Het geluid is niet duidelijk

In DJUCED®:
Wij raden u aan om een ASIO-audioapparaat te
gebruiken.    Met    een    WASAPI-apparaat       is   de
geluidskwaliteit over het algemeen goed. De latentie kan
echter toenemen en het geluid kan onduidelijk zijn.


Ga naar de instellingen, klik op het tabblad Audio en
selecteer DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) als het
Audio device (Audioapparaat).




In Serato DJ Lite:
Ga naar de instellingen, klik op het tabblad Audio en vink
(i.e. deselecteer) het vakje Use Laptop Speakers
(Laptopluidsprekers gebruiken) uit.




                           96
    6.      Ik kan mijn multimediaspeakers
     niet aansluiten op mijn DJControl
     Inpulse T7.
Als de aansluitingen van uw speakers afwijken van de
aansluitingen op de DJControl Inpulse T7, kunt u een
mini-jack adapter van het type dubbele RCA naar 3,5
mm       (niet        meegeleverd)        gebruiken        om     de
multimediaspeakers           aan   te    sluiten,   een    mini-jack
adapter van het type dubbele XLR naar 6,35 mm (niet
meegeleverd) om de PA-speakers aan te sluiten, of elke
andere adapter die past op uw speakers.
U    kunt        uw    speakers     ook     aansluiten      op    de
koptelefoonuitgang en uitgang 1-2 omleiden naar
uitgang 3-4 door op de                  -knop onder de MASTER
VU-meter te drukken.



    7.      Is        de   DJControl           Inpulse           T7-
     controller compatibel met een iPad
     of iPhone?
Nee,     de      DJControl    Inpulse      T7-controller    is   niet
compatibel met een iPad of iPhone. Deze controller
werkt alleen met een PC of Mac.




                                   97
  8.    Hoe kan ik de DJControl Inpulse
    T7-controller         aansluiten     op     een
    USB-C-poort of een Thunderbolt 3-
    poort?
U kunt de DJControl Inpulse T7-controller op drie
verschillende manieren aansluiten op een USB-C-poort
of een Thunderbolt 3-poort:
  − Door een adapter (USB-C [mannetje] of Thunderbolt
    3 naar USB-A [vrouwelijk]) tussen de computer en
    de DJ-controller te gebruiken. Houd er rekening
    mee dat sommige goedkope adapters niet goed
    zullen werken,    omdat    ze een deel    van de
    stroomtoevoer afsluiten.
  − Door een dock (USB-C of Thunderbolt 3) te
    gebruiken tussen de computer en de DJ-controller.
    Zorg ervoor dat het dock een eigen voeding heeft,
    want een dock dat alleen via de USB-C of
    Thunderbolt 3 poort van stroom wordt voorzien,
    heeft mogelijk niet genoeg stroom.
  − Door de meegeleverde USB-kabel te vervangen
    door een USB-C of Thunderbolt 3 naar USB-B 2.0
    kabel.




                          98
TECHNISCHE ONDERSTEUNING
 https://support.hercules.com




             99
Handelsmerken
Intel®    en   Intel   Core™   zijn   handelsmerken   of   geregistreerde
handelsmerken van Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 is een al of niet geregistreerd handelsmerk
van Microsoft Corporation in de Verenigde Staten en/of in andere
landen.
Mac® en macOS® zijn handelsmerken van Apple Inc., geregistreerd in
de Verenigde Staten en andere landen.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite en Serato DJ Pro zijn geregistreerde
handelsmerken van Serato Audio Research Limited.
Het merk DJUCEDen de grafische elementen in DJUCED zijn het
eigendom van Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO is een handelsmerk van Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Alle overige handelsmerken en handelsnamen worden hierbij erkend als
zijnde het eigendom van de respectieve eigenaren. Afbeeldingen zijn
niet bindend. Inhoud, ontwerp en specificaties kunnen zonder
voorafgaande kennisgeving worden gewijzigd en kunnen per land
verschillen.




                                      100
Copyright
Niets uit deze handleiding mag worden gekopieerd, samengevat,
verzonden, uitgegeven, gepubliceerd, opslagen in een zoekmachine of
vertaald in een taal of computertaal, voor enigerlei doel en op enigerlei
wijze, hetzij elektronisch, mechanisch, magnetisch of handmatig hetzij
via fotokopieën, opnamen of anderszins, zonder de nadrukkelijke
schriftelijke toestemming van Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                  101
Eindgebruikerslicenties                                      voor
DJUCED® en Serato DJ Lite
Lees de Licentieovereenkomst zoals weergegeven tijdens de installatie
van DJUCED® en Serato DJ Lite zorgvuldig door.




                                102
Manuale d’uso
                              INDICE

1.   CONTENUTO DELLA CONFEZIONE ........... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   CARATTERISTICHE TECNICHE ................ 10

3.   CARATTERISTICHE ................................... 13

     Panoramica .....................................................13

     Banchi ..............................................................14

     Mixaggio ..........................................................32

     Connettori ........................................................43

4.   INSTALLAZIONE ......................................... 46

     Collegamenti ...................................................46

     Scaricare il software ......................................49

5.   RAVVIVARE IL TUO MIX ............................ 54

     Modalità e pad.................................................54

     Scratching .......................................................70

     Filtri ...................................................................71
6.   SCHEDA AUDIO MULTICANALE............... 72

     Uscita master per altoparlanti (uscita 1-2) ...73

     Uscita cuffie (uscita 3-4) ................................74

     Ingresso microfono........................................76

7.   COMPATIBILITÀ ......................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     Pannello di controllo ASIO e Windows® .....78

     Aggiornamento del firmware ........................81

     Testare il controller DJ dal pannello di

     controllo ...........................................................82

8.   MODALITÀ DEMO ....................................... 86

9.   FAQ .............................................................. 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 è un controller completo
concepito per     aiutarti a padroneggiare l’arte dei
giradischi in vinile grazie a due piatti motorizzati, video
tutorial e all’integrazione dei software DJUCED e
Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 include una licenza per
Serato DJ Lite, non una licenza per Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite può essere utilizzato senza alcun limite.
Qualora tu installassi Serato DJ Pro al posto di Serato
DJ Lite, Serato DJ Pro funzionerà con il tuo DJControl
Inpulse T7 per un periodo di prova. Al termine di tale
periodo di prova, se volessi continuare a utilizzare
Serato DJ Pro, dovrai acquistare una licenza Serato
DJ Pro.




                            4
Per aiutarti a imparare a mixare con il controller
Hercules   DJControl    Inpulse T7,   sono   disponibili
un’ampia gamma di video tutorial:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (in inglese):
       o In DJUCED, cliccando sull’icona      .
       o Sul sito web di DJUCED.
  − Il canale YouTube Hercules Audio (in inglese).
  − The DJ Coach, con corsi tenuti da DJ HAPA su
    Serato DJ Lite (in inglese).




                           5
 1.    Contenuto della confezione

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Due dischi in vinile (da 7 pollici / 17,8 cm)
 − Due tappetini in feltro
 − Cavo USB intrecciato
 − Cavo di alimentazione rimuovibile
 − Alimentatore
 − Manuale di istruzioni
 − Volantino sulla garanzia




                             6
Puoi rimuovere le pellicole protettive dai VU meter del
controller Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7. Puoi anche
lasciare le pellicole protettive lì dove si trovano, poiché
non impattano sull’uso dei VU meter.




                            7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Due dischi in vinile (7 pollici / 17,8 cm)
 − Due tappetini in feltro
 − Due tappetini sottili in feltro
 − Cavo USB intrecciato
 − Cavo di alimentazione rimovibile
 − Alimentatore
 − Borsa da trasporto
 − Manuale di istruzioni
 − Volantino sulla garanzia




Puoi rimuovere le pellicole protettive dai VU meter del
controller Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium
Edition. Puoi anche lasciare le pellicole protettive lì
dove si trovano, poiché non impattano sull’uso dei VU
meter.




                             9
  2.     Caratteristiche tecniche
Requisiti di sistema:
  − DJUCED:
     https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
     (in inglese)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
     https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
     uirements#system-requirements (in inglese)

Uscite audio:
         o Risoluzione = 24 bit
         o Frequenza di campionamento = 44,1 kHz

Uscite Master per altoparlanti (uscita 1-2) tramite:
  − Due connettori RCA:
         o Potenza massima in uscita = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Due connettori XLR (bilanciati):
         o Potenza massima in uscita = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Uscita cuffie (uscita 3-4) tramite un connettore mini-jack
stereo da 3,5 mm stereo e un connettore jack stereo da
6,35 mm:
         o Potenza massima in uscita = 5 dBU per 32Ω
               @ 1 kHz


Ingresso microfono tramite connettore jack da 6,35 mm
(bilanciato)


                            10
                  Alimentazione
− Utilizza esclusivamente l’alimentatore indicato nel
  manuale d’uso.
− Utilizza l’alimentatore esclusivamente con il
  voltaggio e la frequenza di corrente elettrica
  indicati sulla targhetta dell’alimentatore.




                         11
     Informazioni riguardanti l’alimentatore
   Informazione                 Valore           Unità
     pubblicata
Nome o marchio del           GUILLEMOT
   produttore             CORPORATION S.A.
      Numero              414 196 758 R.C.S.
     di impresa                Vannes
      Indirizzo          2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                            56910 Carentoir
                                Francia
Identificativo modello      A481-1852590D
Voltaggio in ingresso          100 - 240          V
  Frequenza CA in               50 - 60           Hz
      ingresso
 Voltaggio in uscita             18,5            V DC
 Corrente in uscita               2,6             A
  Potenza in uscita              47,9             W
  Efficienza attiva              87,8             %
        media
 Efficienza a basso              87,8             %
    carico (10%)
 Consumo elettrico               0,10             W
   senza carico




                          12
 3.     Caratteristiche

Panoramica




 1. Piatto motorizzato
 2. Pulsanti trasporto (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Controlli loop (Loop)
 4. Controlli     scelta    brano   (Browser,     Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Fader del tempo (Pitch fader)
 6. Pad e modalità
 7. Modalità riproduzione
 8. Monitoraggio, volumi (Master, Cuffie e Microfono)
      e Beatmatch Guide
 9. Sezione mixaggio (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixer (Crossfader, fader del volume)
 11. Effetti




                            13
Banchi

  1. Piatto motorizzato




Tappetino in feltro: inserito tra il piatto motorizzato e il
disco in vinile. Protegge il disco in vinile dallo
sfregamento contro il piatto e riduce le vibrazioni quando
si ascolta il disco.




 Prima di posizionare il disco in vinile, assicurati
 sempre di aver inserito il tappetino in feltro sul piatto
 motorizzato.




                            14
Disco in vinile: ti permette di scratchare, accelerare o
rallentare la riproduzione, nonché muoverti all’interno del
brano.
La linea presente sull’etichetta del vinile funge da punto
di riferimento (ossia da marcatore) per mixare e
scratchare.


L’azione eseguita dipende da due criteri:
  − brano in ascolto o in pausa;
  − il punto in cui tocchi il disco in vinile (parte superiore
    (top) o anello (ring)).


                       Parte superiore




     Anello




                              15
Azioni dei dischi in vinile con Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ
Pro:


                          Piatto
   Play/Pausa                             Pulsante SHIFT
                        motorizzato
         Play          Parte superiore           -
                         Scratching
                      Parte superiore /
         Play                              Tieni premuto
                           Anello
           Spostamento rapido all’interno del brano
         Play              Anello                -
       Accelerazione o rallentamento della riproduzione
                      Parte superiore /
        Pausa                                    -
                           Anello
           Spostamento lento all’interno del brano
                      Parte superiore /
        Pausa                              Tieni premuto
                           Anello
           Spostamento rapido all’interno del brano




                             16
Azioni dei dischi in vinile con DJUCED:


                        Piatto
    Play/Pausa                          Pulsante SHIFT
                      motorizzato
       Play          Parte superiore             -
                       Scratching
                    Parte superiore /
       Play                                Tieni premuto
                         Anello
        Spostamento rapido all’interno del brano
       Play              Anello                  -
    Accelerazione o rallentamento della riproduzione
      Pausa              Anello                  -
         Spostamento lento all’interno del brano




                           17
Piatto motorizzato: fa muovere il disco in vinile che
controlla la riproduzione del brano e la velocità del brano
in base al tempo impostato tramite il fader del tempo.

Quando la funzione Beatmatch Guide è attiva, le guide
visive BEAT ALIGN indicano la direzione in cui dovrai far
ruotare l’anello (ossia il bordo) del piatto motorizzato per
allineare le griglie dei battiti dei due brani. Quando le
due frecce rosse non sono accese, le griglie dei battiti
sono allineate.

Per ulteriori informazioni sulla funzione Beatmatch
Guide, consulta il paragrafo Beatmatch Guide.




Non è possibile disattivare la motorizzazione dei piatti.




 − Per non danneggiare il sistema di movimento,
   mentre il piatto motorizzato sta girando, cerca di
   non fermarne troppo a lungo la rotazione con la
   mano.
 − Quando collochi il disco in vinile sul piatto
   motorizzato,     non     forzarlo:    rischieresti    di
   danneggiare il centro del disco in vinile.



                            18
  2. Pulsanti trasporto




SHIFT: controllo combinato. Ad esempio:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): blocca la chiave
     musicale del brano.
  − SHIFT + IN: in DJUCED®, dimezza la dimensione del
     loop attivo.


SYNC: attiva o disattiva la sincronizzazione automatica dei
valori dei BPM (battiti al minuto) di due brani.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o In DJUCED: il banco in questione diventa il
         banco di sincronizzazione principale (Master
         Sync).
      o In Serato DJ Lite: disattiva la sincronizzazione del
         banco.


CUE: inserisce nel brano un punto Cue per identificare un
particolare   momento,     oppure    sposta    l’indicatore   di
riproduzione in corrispondenza del punto Cue.


                              19
  − Brano in pausa: inserisce un punto Cue dove il brano è
    stato fermato.
  − Brano in riproduzione: interrompe l’ascolto del brano e
    sposta l’indicatore di riproduzione in corrispondenza del
    punto Cue.
      o In DJUCED, qualora non fosse stato definito
         alcun punto Cue, premendo CUE la riproduzione si
         interrompe e viene inserito un punto Cue nella
         posizione in cui si trova l’indicatore di riproduzione.
      o In Serato DJ Lite, qualora non fosse stato definito
         alcun punto Cue, premendo CUE la riproduzione si
         interrompe e viene inserito un punto Cue all’inizio
         del brano.
  − CUE + PLAY: sposta l’indicatore di riproduzione in
    corrispondenza del punto Cue e avvia la riproduzione
    da tale punto.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o In DJUCED: sposta l’indicatore di riproduzione
         all’inizio del brano e interrompe la riproduzione.
      o In    Serato     DJ   Lite:   sposta    l’indicatore   di
         riproduzione all’inizio del brano e avvia la
         riproduzione.


Play/Pausa: riproduce o mette in pausa il brano.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: in Serato DJ Lite, sposta l’indicatore di
    riproduzione in corrispondenza del punto Cue e avvia
    la riproduzione del brano da tale punto.

                              20
  3. Controlli loop




Selettore AUTOLOOP:
  − Premi il selettore: attiva o disattiva la riproduzione
    del loop.
  − Ruota il selettore: regola la lunghezza del loop.


IN/OUT: attiva un loop selezionando il punto di ingresso
(IN) e il punto di uscita (OUT).
Quando un loop è attivo (ossia in esecuzione):
  − Premi IN (il pulsante lampeggia) e ruota il piatto
    motorizzato per spostare l’inizio del loop.
  − Premi OUT (il pulsante lampeggia) e ruota il piatto
    motorizzato per spostare la fine del loop.
Per uscire dal loop, premi il selettore AUTOLOOP.
In DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: dimezza la dimensione del loop attivo.
  − SHIFT + OUT: raddoppia la dimensione del loop
    attivo.
  − Pressione prolungata su IN: attiva un loop di quattro
    battiti.



                             21
  4. Controlli scelta brano




Selettore BROWSER*: ti permette di navigare nella tua
libreria musicale e nell’elenco dei brani ruotando il
selettore verso sinistra (su) o verso destra (giù).
Premi il selettore per selezionare le cartelle e caricare il
brano selezionato nel banco di destinazione.


Anello luminoso:
  − In DJUCED, visualizza il livello di energia del
    brano master per il tempo.
  − In Serato DJ Lite, visualizza il ritmo. La luce
    lampeggia in corrispondenza dei battiti del brano:
            o Rosso: indica il primo battito.
            o Blu: indica i tre battiti successivi.




                             22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − In DJUCED, visualizza il pannello che suggerisce i
    migliori brani da mettere in coda per il tuo mix.
    Per muoverti nell’elenco dei brani suggeriti, ruota il
    selettore BROWSER.
    Per selezionare un brano, premi il selettore
    BROWSER. Il brano già caricato nel banco in
    questione deve essere messo in pausa.
    Premi ASSIST./PREP. e ruota il selettore per
    regolare il livello di energia dei brani suggeriti.
  − In Serato DJ Lite, aggiunge il brano attualmente in
    riproduzione alla lista Prepare (Prepara).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: apri il pannello Prepare
    (Prepara).


BACK*: ti permette di spostarti nella struttura ad albero
in DJUCED e Serato DJ Lite.
  − In DJUCED, premi SHIFT e BACK per tornare alla
    colonna Libreria.




*La funzione è identica per i banchi 1 e 2.


                             23
  5. Fader del tempo




Fader del tempo: regola la velocità di riproduzione del
brano modificando il numero di BPM.
  − Verso l’alto: rallenta il brano.
  − Verso il basso: accelera il brano.
  − Fader del tempo al centro: velocità originale del
    brano. Il LED bianco è acceso.


Quando la funzione Beatmatch Guide è attiva, le guide
visive TEMPO indicano la direzione in cui devi muovere
il fader del tempo, su o giù, per rallentare o accelerare il
brano. Quando le due frecce rosse sono spente,
significa che il tempo del banco in questione è identico al
tempo dell’altro banco.


Per ulteriori informazioni sulla funzione Beatmatch
Guide, consulta il paragrafo Beatmatch Guide.



                             24
In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, quando la modalità
SYNC      è   attiva,   premendo       SHIFT   e   muovendo
contemporaneamente        il   fader    del    tempo,   potrai
modificare i valori del fader del tempo mantenendo
inalterata l’ampiezza.


Ad esempio, con una scala del tempo di ±8%, ossia il
16% di ampiezza, potrai spostare i valori del fader del
tempo da 0% (massimo) a -16% (minimo), il che
corrisponde a un’ampiezza del 16%, con il valore -8% al
centro.




                               25
RANGE*: ti permette di modificare la scala del tempo
dei fader del tempo.
  − In   DJUCED:      ± 6 %,    ± 8 %,   ± 10 %,   ± 12 %,
    ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − In Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): blocca la chiave musicale
del brano.
Per assicurarti che la chiave musicale sia bloccata,
premi SHIFT. Il pulsante RANGE si accende.




*La funzione è identica per i banchi 1 e 2.
                            26
  6. Pad e modalità




Pulsanti modalità: ti permettono di attivare fino a otto
modalità.
Per attivare una modalità principale, premi HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 o SAMPLER 4.
Per attivare una modalità secondaria (MODE 5, MODE
6, MODE 7 e MODE 8), premi simultaneamente SHIFT e
HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 o SAMPLER 4. Il
pulsante modalità lampeggia.
Le modalità attivate tramite i pad variano a seconda del
software utilizzato.


Per ulteriori informazioni sulle varie modalità con
DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, consulta il
paragrafo Modalità e pad.


Pad performance: un pad esegue un’azione.




                            27
  7. Modalità di riproduzione




INSTRUMENTAL: ti permette di riprodurre solamente le
parti Melodia, Bassi e Percussioni di un brano. Si tratta
di una scorciatoia per la modalità Stems.
  − Per riprodurre solo le parti Melodia, Bassi e
    Percussioni   di    un    brano,    premi   il   pulsante
    INSTRUMENTAL. Il pulsante si illumina.
  − Per riprendere l’ascolto di tutte le parti di un brano
    (Voci,   Melodia,   Bassi     e    Percussioni),   premi
    nuovamente il pulsante INSTRUMENTAL. La luce
    del pulsante si spegne.




                             28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: attiva la modalità Slip. In
modalità Slip, quando applichi un effetto o un loop,
inserisci un punto Cue o quando utilizzi i piatti
motorizzati, l’indicatore di riproduzione del banco
continua ad avanzare in background. Quando smetti di
utilizzare un effetto, la riproduzione riprende dal punto in
cui si dovrebbe trovare il brano se la riproduzione fosse
proseguita normalmente.
Per assicurarti che la modalità Slip sia attiva, premi
SHIFT. Il pulsante INSTRUMENTAL si illumina.




Serato DJ Lite non dispone della modalità Slip.
Serato DJ Pro dispone della modalità Slip.




                            29
VOCAL: ti permette di riprodurre soltanto la parte Voci di
un brano. Si tratta di una scorciatoia per la modalità
Stems.
  − Per riprodurre solo la parte Voci di un brano, premi il
    pulsante VOCAL. Il pulsante si illumina.
  − Per riprendere l’ascolto di tutte le parti di un brano
    (Voci,    Melodia,    Bassi     e   Percussioni),   premi
    nuovamente il pulsante VOCAL. La luce del
    pulsante si spegne.


SHIFT + VOCAL: attiva la modalità Quantizzazione. La
Quantizzazione ti permette di eseguire un’azione in
corrispondenza del battito successivo nella griglia
(riprodurre il brano, inserire un punto Cue, avviare un
loop…).
Per assicurarti che la modalità Quantizzazione sia attiva,
premi SHIFT. Il pulsante VOCAL si illumina.




Serato       DJ   Lite   non    dispone     della   modalità
Quantizzazione.
Serato DJ Pro dispone della modalità Quantizzazione.




                               30
      (pitch bend -) /       (pitch bend +): ti permettono
di allineare manualmente la griglia dei battiti del brano in
ascolto sul banco in questione, con la griglia dei battiti
dell’altro banco.
  − Tieni      premuto                  per       rallentare
    momentaneamente il banco.
  − Tieni      premuto                 per      accelerare
    momentaneamente il banco.




In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +              e
SHIFT +         ti permettono di regolare i parametri in
alcune modalità (Impostazioni).




                            31
Mixaggio

  8. Monitoraggio, volume e Beatmatch Guide




Volume MIC: regola il volume del microfono.


Anello luminoso MIC: indica il livello del segnale audio
(VU meter).
  − Spento: non c’è segnale audio.
  − Verde: il segnale audio è in riproduzione.
  − Rosso: il segnale audio è saturo.


Volume MASTER: regola il volume del mix riprodotto
dai tuoi altoparlanti.


MASTER VU meter: indica il livello del segnale audio
dell’uscita Master (RCA o XLR) per altoparlanti.


                           32
Volume HEADPHONES:
 −        /        : regola il segnale riprodotto dalle tue
     cuffie, mixando l’uscita Cue (monitoraggio dei
     banchi 1 e 2) e l’uscita Mix (uscita Master).
       o Per ascoltare soltanto il monitoraggio, premi i
         pulsanti Monitoraggio dei banchi 1 e 2. I
         pulsanti si accendono. Dopodiché, muovi la
         manopola su Cue.
       o Per ascoltare soltanto l’uscita Master, premi il
         pulsante Master Monitoraggio. Il pulsante si
         accende. Dopodiché, muovi la manopola su
         Mix per regolare il mix riprodotto dalle tue
         cuffie.
 −         : regola il volume dell’uscita cuffie.




                              33
Monitoraggio: seleziona la sorgente sonora riprodotta
dalle tue cuffie.
  −         (presente sotto al VU meter MASTER):
      riproduce il suono del mix in riproduzione destinato
      al pubblico.
  −       * (presente su entrambi i lati del pulsante
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): quando il pulsante Cue/Mix
      è impostato su Cue, riproduce il suono del banco 1
      o del banco 2.
In Serato DJ Lite, tieni premuto SHIFT e             * (accanto
al pulsante BEATMATCH GUIDE) per modificare la
griglia dei battiti del brano in riproduzione sul banco in
questione. Per uscire dalla modalità di modifica della
griglia dei battiti, clicca su Edit Grid (Modifica la griglia).




*La funzione è identica su entrambi i banchi 1 e 2.


                               34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: attiva o disattiva le guide
luminose per regolare il tempo e allineare le griglie dei
battiti dei due brani. Vi sono quattro frecce rosse per
banco.




DJUCED® definisce uno dei banchi come il banco di
sincronizzazione master (Master Sync), mentre l’altro
è il banco slave. Le frecce rosse si illuminano solo sul
banco slave, dato che quest’ultimo segue il tempo del
banco di sincronizzazione master.
Serato    DJ   Lite     non    definisce   un   banco   di
sincronizzazione master. Le frecce rosse si illuminano
su entrambi i banchi.




                              35
− Guide visive TEMPO: qualora una delle due frecce
  rosse presenti alla destra di un fader del tempo
  fader dovesse accendersi, significa che il tempo
  (ossia il numero di battiti al minuto) del brano
  riprodotto sul banco in questione è diverso dal
  tempo dell’altro banco.
  Le frecce indicano la direzione nella quale dovrai
  muovere il fader del tempo per far combaciare il
  tempo del brano in riproduzione con il tempo
  dell’altro banco.
         o Freccia su accesa: muovi il fader del
           tempo verso l’alto. Così facendo, il tempo
           risulterà rallentato.
         o Freccia giù accesa: muovi il fader del
           tempo verso il basso. Così facendo, il
           tempo risulterà accelerato.
         o Freccia non accesa: il tempo del banco è
           identico    al        tempo   del   banco   di
           sincronizzazione master.




                            36
− Guide visive BEAT ALIGN: qualora una delle due
 frecce rosse presenti sotto a un piatto motorizzato
 dovesse accendersi, significa che i battiti del brano
 riprodotto sul banco in questione non sono allineati
 ai battiti dell’altro banco.
 Le frecce indicano la direzione in cui occorre
 ruotare il piatto motorizzato per allineare i battiti del
 brano in riproduzione con i battiti dell’altro banco.
        o Freccia sinistra accesa: ruota il piatto
           motorizzato in senso orario. Così facendo,
           la velocità di riproduzione aumenterà.
        o Freccia destra accesa: ruota il piatto
           motorizzato       in     senso    antiorario.   Così
           facendo,     la        velocità   di   riproduzione
           diminuirà.
        o Frecce non accese: i battiti del banco sono
           allineati ai battiti dell’altro banco.




                             37
  9. Sezione mixaggio




Manopola GAIN*: regola il guadagno (ossia il livello del
volume prima del fader del volume).


Equalizzatore a 3 bande (EQ)*: regola l’intensità
dell’equalizzatore. Ad ogni banda è associata una
manopola: HIGH, MID e LOW.


Manopola FILTER*: regola la frequenza del doppio filtro
(high-pass e low-pass).




*La funzione è identica per i banchi 1 e 2.


                            38
  10.   Mixer




VU meter: visualizza il livello del segnale audio dei
banchi 1 e 2.


Fader del volume*: regola il volume del banco.


Crossfader: ti permette di effettuare una transizione tra
due brani aumentando il volume di uno dei banchi
riducendo contemporaneamente il volume dell’altro banco.
  − Crossfader tutto a sinistra: ascolterai solo il brano
    sul banco 1.
  − Crossfader tutto a destra: ascolterai solo il brano sul
    banco 2.
  − Crossfader al centro: ascolterai contemporaneamente
    i brani di entrambi i banchi 1 e 2.

                             39
Cambio di curva: ti permette di modificare la curva del
crossfader.
  −       (mix): mixaggio progressivo dei due banchi.
  −        (scratch): mixaggio molto veloce dei due
      banchi.
  −       (disattivato): crossfader disattivato, per mixare
      utilizzando solo i fader del volume.




In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, puoi modificare le
impostazioni del crossfader. Vai su Impostazioni e poi
su Mixer:
   − Power (Potenza): curva veloce per lo scratching.
   − Linear (Lineare): curva progressiva per mixare.
   − Reverse (Invertita): inverte la direzione del
       crossfader, nota anche come modalità “Hamster”.




*La funzione è identica per i banchi 1 e 2.

                             40
  11.      Effetti




Per visualizzare il rack effetti:
  − In DJUCED: clicca su              .
  − In Serato DJ Lite: clicca su                 .


Pulsanti effetti       /      /   *: ti permettono di selezionare
un effetto dal rack effetti. Il pulsante si illumina.
Per attivare un effetto, usa la leva performance.
Per cambiare gli effetti associati ai pulsanti                        /       /     ,
seleziona un nuovo effetto nel rack effetti. In Serato DJ
Lite e Serato DJ Pro, puoi anche premere SHIFT e                                    ,
    oppure         per visualizzare l’elenco degli effetti,
dopodiché premi nuovamente SHIFT e                          ,         oppure
per muoverti all’interno dell’elenco e selezionare il nuovo
effetto.




In Serato DJ Lite:
  − È      possibile       combinare       tra       loro       più       effetti
     contemporaneamente.

                                  41
  − I tre effetti      /    /         a sinistra agiscono sul
    banco di sinistra (Banco 1), mentre gli effetti          /
       /         a destra agiscono sul banco di destra
    (Banco 2).
In Serato DJ Pro, i due gruppi da tre effetti agiscono
sui due banchi virtuali.


Leva performance*: ti permette di attivare un effetto
caricato sul pulsante        ,        o   . Sono disponibili tre
diverse posizioni:
  − HOLD: attiva l’effetto continuamente fintantoché la
    leva rimane in questa posizione.
  − ON: attiva momentaneamente l’effetto fintantoché la
    leva rimane in questa posizione.
  − Posizione centrale: effetto disattivato.


Manopola DEPTH: regola l’intensità dell’effetto.


Pulsanti     /      : regolano la durata del ciclo dell’effetto
sincronizzato con la musica.




DJUCED non dispone di tale funzione.




*La funzione è identica per i banchi 1 e 2.


                                 42
Connettori




  12.     Uscita master per altoparlanti (uscita 1-2)
  13.     Ingresso microfono bilanciato
  14.     Porta USB-B 2.0
  15.     Pulsante POWER
  16.     Connettore per alimentatore
  17.     Uscita cuffie (uscita 3-4)


Uscita master per altoparlanti (uscita 1-2): ti permette
di collegare degli altoparlanti attivi.
Formati: 2 RCA non bilanciati (Cinch) e 2 XLR bilanciati.


Ingresso microfono bilanciato: ti permette di collegare
un microfono bilanciato o non bilanciato.
Formato: jack da 6,35 mm.


Porta USB-B 2.0: ti permette di collegare il controller a
un computer.

                              43
Pulsante POWER: ti permette di accendere e spegnere
il controller DJControl Inpulse T7.


Connettore per alimentatore: ti permette di collegare il
cavo di alimentazione e di collegare il controller
DJControl Inpulse T7 a una presa di corrente utilizzando
l’adattatore.


Uscita cuffie (uscita 3-4): ti permette di collegare delle
cuffie per monitorare i brani.
Formati: connettore mini-jack stereo da 3,5 mm e
connettore jack stereo da 6,35 mm.




                             44
Estendi i quattro piedini retrattili per rialzare il
controller DJControl Inpulse T7 e far passare i cavi
sotto di esso.




  − Ripiega i piedini prima di trasportare il controller
    DJControl Inpulse T7.
  − Ripiega i piedini se non usi il controller DJControl
    Inpulse T7.
  − Quando i piedini sono estesi, non esercitare sul
    controller DJControl Inpulse T7 una forza verso il
    basso superiore a 5 kg / 50 newton.




                          45
 4.     Installazione

Collegamenti
 1. Collega    l’alimentatore     al     controller     DJControl
   Inpulse T7.
 2. Collega il cavo di alimentazione all’alimentatore e
   quindi a una presa di corrente.
 3. Collega il cavo USB al controller DJControl
   Inpulse T7 e al computer.
 4. Premi il pulsante POWER sul controller DJControl
   Inpulse T7. Il pulsante rimane schiacciato.
 5. Assicurati che gli altoparlanti siano spenti, oppure,
   qualora questi fossero collegati a un amplificatore
   esterno, che l’amplificatore sia spento. Collega gli
   ingressi degli altoparlanti attivi alle uscite Master per
   altoparlanti del controller DJControl Inpulse T7
   (2 RCA oppure 2 XLR).
 6. Regola al minimo il volume MASTER sul controller
   DJControl        Inpulse T7,   dopodiché           accendi   gli
   altoparlanti.
 7. Indossa le cuffie attorno al collo (e non sulle tue
   orecchie), quindi collega le cuffie al connettore mini-
   jack da 3,5 mm o al connettore jack da 6,35 mm.
 8. Collega    il     microfono        all’ingresso     Microfono
   (opzionale).




                             46
                   Alimentatore
− Utilizza esclusivamente l’alimentatore indicato nel
  manuale d’uso.
− Utilizza l’alimentatore esclusivamente con il
  voltaggio e la frequenza di corrente elettrica
  indicati sulla targhetta dell’alimentatore.



                          47
− È   possibile   utilizzare      contemporaneamente
  entrambi i formati di uscita (XLR e RCA): ad
  esempio, collegando una coppia di uscite al
  sistema PA e una seconda coppia di uscite agli
  altoparlanti di monitoraggio.
− Ogniqualvolta collegherai il controller DJControl
  Inpulse T7 al tuo computer, partirà una sequenza
  a LED luminosi chiamata Vegas Mode. La Vegas
  Mode si sviluppa in quattro fasi, durante le quali
  vengono accesi tutti i LED e vengono visualizzati
  tutti i possibili colori per i pad e gli anelli
  retroilluminati dei selettori BROWSER.




                         48
Scaricare il software

DJUCED

 1. Visita il sito: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Scarica e installa DJUCED®.
 3. Visita la pagina:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in inglese).
 4. Scarica e installa i driver per il sistema operativo del
   tuo computer.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Per   poter      utilizzare    DJControl   Inpulse T7   in
    modalità ASIO, che riduce la latenza rispetto alla
    modalità WASAPI ed è generalmente più stabile,
    Windows® necessita l’installazione dei driver.
    I driver ti permettono inoltre di testare il tuo
    controller DJControl Inpulse T7 e verificare la
    versione del firmware sia in Windows® sia in
    macOS®.
 5. Avvia il software DJUCED. Apparirà una finestra
   per comunicarti che il tuo controller DJControl
   Inpulse T7 è stato rilevato correttamente ed è
   pronto all’uso.




                              49
 Quando avvierai il software per la prima volta,
 DJUCED® ti guiderà al collegamento delle tue cuffie e
 dei tuoi altoparlanti attivi (oppure, qualora tu non
 disponessi di altoparlanti attivi, ti permetterà di
 utilizzare gli altoparlanti integrati nel tuo computer).
 Prima di iniziare, segui passo-passo le istruzioni che
 compariranno sullo schermo.


Impostazioni audio:
In DJUCED®, per modificare le impostazioni della scheda
audio, clicca l’icona a forma di ingranaggio        presente
sullo schermo, in alto a destra. Verrà visualizzato il menu
Impostazioni.
Seleziona la scheda Audio per scegliere la scheda audio
e assegnare le uscite per cuffie e altoparlanti.

La configurazione standard per Windows® è la seguente:
  − Audio       device   (Periferica   audio):     DJControl
    Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Uscita):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                             50
La configurazione standard per macOS® è la seguente:
  − Audio     device   (Periferica   audio):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Uscita):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                           51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Visita la pagina:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Scarica e installa Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Visita la pagina:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (in inglese).
 4. Scarica e installa i driver per il sistema operativo del
   tuo computer.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Per   poter    utilizzare    DJControl   Inpulse T7   in
    modalità ASIO, che riduce la latenza rispetto alla
    modalità WASAPI ed è generalmente più stabile,
    Windows® necessita l’installazione dei driver.
    I driver ti permettono inoltre di testare il tuo
    controller DJControl Inpulse T7 e verificare la
    versione del firmware sia in Windows® sia in
    macOS®.




                            52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 include una licenza per
Serato DJ Lite, non una licenza per Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite può essere utilizzato senza alcun
limite.
Qualora tu installassi Serato DJ Pro al posto di Serato
DJ Lite, Serato DJ Pro funzionerà con il tuo DJControl
Inpulse T7 per un periodo di prova. Al termine di tale
periodo di prova, se volessi continuare a utilizzare
Serato DJ Pro, dovrai acquistare una licenza Serato
DJ Pro.




                          53
  5.     Ravvivare il tuo mix
Esistono diversi modi per ravvivare il tuo mix.



Modalità e pad

I pad

In DJUCED, i pad da 1 a 8 eseguono le azioni
corrispondenti alla modalità attualmente attiva.


In Serato DJ Lite, i pad da 1 a 4 eseguono le azioni
corrispondenti alla modalità attualmente attiva. I pad da
5 a 8 eseguono le seguenti azioni:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (riproduzione al contrario)
  − Pad 6: indietro
  − Pad 7: avanti veloce
  − Pad 8: Censor. Questa azione ti permette di
    riprodurre il brano al contrario, fintantoché il pad
    rimane premuto. Una volta rilasciato il pad, la
    riproduzione riparte dal punto in cui si troverebbe il
    brano    se   quest’ultimo   fosse   stato     riprodotto
    normalmente. Questa funzione può essere utilizzata
    per eliminare del linguaggio esplicito da un brano.




                            54
Le modalità attive sui pad variano a seconda del
software utilizzato:


Modalità DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

    1       Hot Cue        Hot Cue         Hot Cue

    2       Loop Roll     Auto Loop       Auto Loop
    3         Stems         Stems           Stems
    4       Sampler        Sampler         Sampler
    5       TonePlay             –         Pitch Play
    6        PadFX               –         Loop Roll
    7      Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
    8      BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Licenza Serato DJ Pro non inclusa.




                            55
Modalità Hot Cue

Un punto Hot Cue è un marker (ossia un segnalibro) che
puoi inserire in un brano per re-individuare facilmente
quel determinato istante e per tornarci immediatamente
in seguito.


In DJUCED, possono essere inseriti otto punti Hot Cue
per brano.


In Serato DJ Lite, possono essere inseriti quattro punti
Hot Cue per brano.
In Serato DJ Pro, possono essere inseriti otto punti Hot
Cue per brano.


  1. Per accedere alla modalità Hot Cue, premi HOT
    CUE 1. La luce del pulsante HOT CUE 1 rimarrà
    accesa.
  2. Per impostare un punto Hot Cue, premi un pad.
  3. Per ascoltare il brano partendo da un punto Hot
    Cue, premi il pad corrispondente.
  4. Per      rimuovere   un    punto   Hot       Cue,    premi
    contemporaneamente              SHIFT     e      il    pad
    corrispondente.




                               56
Modalità Loop




In DJUCED, questa modalità corrisponde alla
modalità Loop Roll. Quando attivi in loop, l’indicatore
di riproduzione del banco continua ad avanzare in
background. Quando disattivi il loop, la riproduzione
riprende dal punto in cui si troverebbe il brano se la
sua riproduzione fosse proseguita senza interruzioni.
In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, questa modalità
corrisponde alla modalità Auto Loop.


Un loop è una parte del brano che viene riprodotta
ripetutamente.


  1. Per accedere alla modalità Loop, premi LOOP 2. La
    luce del pulsante LOOP 2 rimane accesa.


In DJUCED:
  2. Per attivare un loop, tieni premuto un pad.
  3. Per   disattivare   un      loop,   rilascia   il   pad
    corrispondente.


In Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Per attivare un loop, premi un pad.
  3. Per disattivare un loop, premi il pad corrispondente.


                            57
Lunghezza loop:

Banco 1 / Banco 2    DJUCED          Serato DJ Lite

      Pad 1         1/16 di battito     un battito
      Pad 2          ⅛ di battito        2 battiti
      Pad 3          ¼ di battito        4 battiti
      Pad 4          ½ di battito        8 battiti
      Pad 5           un battito             -
      Pad 6            2 battiti             -
      Pad 7            4 battiti             -
      Pad 8            8 battiti             -




                       58
Modalità Stems

La modalità Stems ti permette di separare un brano in
quattro parti differenti (voci e strumenti), chiamate
“stems”.


  1. Per accedere alla modalità Stems, premi STEMS 3.
    La luce del pulsante STEMS 3 rimane accesa.
  2. Ognuno dei pad da 1 a 4 è associato a uno stem.
    Per interrompere l’ascolto di uno stem, premi il pad
    corrispondente. La luce del pad si spegne.
  3. Per riprendere l’ascolto di uno stem, premi il pad
    corrispondente. Il pad si illumina.


Stems:

   Banco 1 / Banco 2                       Stem

           Pad 1                           Voci
           Pad 2                          Melodia
           Pad 3                           Bassi
           Pad 4                     Percussioni




                           59
Quando attivi gli stems in un brano per la prima volta,
la separazione non è sempre immediata. Potrebbe
durare alcuni istanti, durante i quali il software DJ
analizza il brano e genera le varie parti (voci, melodia,
bassi, percussioni).


Dovresti ricordarti di lasciare abbastanza tempo tra il
momento in cui separi gli stems e il momento in cui li
ascolti. Una volta generate le varie parti per gli stems,
la riproduzione degli stems è istantanea.


Per utilizzare la modalità Stems è richiesto un
computer potente.




                            60
Modalità Sampler

Una campionatura è un breve suono riprodotto sopra al
brano attualmente in ascolto: può essere riprodotto una
volta (jingle) oppure a ripetizione (loop).


In DJUCED, i pad da 1 a 8 ti permettono di riprodurre le
otto campionature che si trovano nelle prime due linee
del campionatore multilayer.
Per visualizzare il campionatore multilayer, dal menu a
tendina presente in alto a sinistra nello schermo di
DJUCED, seleziona 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers.


In Serato DJ Lite, i pad da 1 a 4 ti permettono di
riprodurre una campionatura.
Per visualizzare il pannello delle campionature, clicca su
  in Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Per   accedere     alla    modalità      Sampler,    premi
    SAMPLER 4. La luce del pulsante SAMPLER 4
    rimane accesa.
  2. Per riprodurre una campionatura, premi un pad.
  3. Per    interrompere       la   riproduzione     di    una
    campionatura, premi simultaneamente SHIFT e il
    relativo pad.




                               61
Modalità 5




Serato DJ      Lite non dispone della modalità              5
(TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro, assieme al plugin Pitch 'n Time, offre
una modalità Pitch Play che funziona utilizzando il
medesimo principio della modalità TonePlay.


In DJUCED, la modalità 5 corrisponde alla modalità
TonePlay. Questa modalità ti permette di riascoltare un
punto Hot Cue in varie tonalità.


  1. Attiva la modalità Hot Cue, dopodiché seleziona un
    punto Hot Cue.
  2. Per    accedere       alla    modalità      5,    premi
    simultaneamente SHIFT e HOT CUE 1. Il pulsante
    HOT CUE 1 lampeggia.
  3. Per modificare la tonalità di un punto Hot Cue,
    premi uno dei pad da 2 a 8.
  4. Per tornare alla tonalità originale, premi il pad 1.




                             62
Modifica della tonalità:

   Banco 1 / Banco 2                Tonalità

           Pad 1                Tonalità originale
           Pad 2                       +1
           Pad 3                       +2
           Pad 4                       +3
           Pad 5                       -1
           Pad 6                       -2
           Pad 7                       -3
           Pad 8                       -4




                           63
Modalità 6




 Serato DJ Lite non dispone della modalità 6.


In DJUCED, la modalità 6 corrisponde alla modalità
PadFX. Questa modalità ti permette di controllare gli
effetti presenti nel rack effetti, utilizzando i pad.
Talvolta un effetto è un filtro o una combinazione di filtri
applicati a un brano per modificarne il suono (eco,
riverbero…).


Per visualizzare il rack effetti, clicca su        .


  1. Per     accedere       alla        modalità       6,        premi
     simultaneamente SHIFT e LOOP 2. Il pulsante
     LOOP 2 lampeggia.
  2. Per eseguire un’azione, premi un pad.
  3. Per    disattivare    un        effetto,   premi       il    pad
     corrispondente (pad da 1 a 3).




                                64
Azioni possibili:

Banco 1 / Banco 2                Effetti

       Pad 1                Effetto 1 del rack
       Pad 2                Effetto 2 del rack
       Pad 3                Effetto 3 del rack
       Pad 4        Mostra/nasconde il rack effetti
       Pad 5          Cambia l’effetto 1 nel rack
       Pad 6          Cambia l’effetto 2 nel rack
       Pad 7          Cambia l’effetto 3 nel rack
       Pad 8                        -




                       65
Modalità 7




 In DJUCED, la modalità 7 corrisponde alla modalità
 Slicer Loop. In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, la
 modalità 7 corrisponde alla modalità Manual Loop.


In DJUCED, la modalità 7 corrisponde alla modalità
Slicer Loop. Questa modalità ti permette di separare il
loop attivo in otto tagli.


  1. Per accedere alla modalità 7 (Slicer Loop), premi
     simultaneamente SHIFT e STEMS 3. Il pulsante
     STEMS 3 lampeggia.
  2. Per ascoltare un taglio come loop, tieni premuto un
     pad.
  3. Per interrompere l’ascolto di un taglio, rilascia il pad
     corrispondente.




                             66
In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, la modalità 7
corrisponde alla modalità Manual Loop. Questa modalità
ti permette di attivare manualmente un loop.


  1. Per accedere alla modalità 7 (Manual Loop), premi
    simultaneamente SHIFT e STEMS 3. Il pulsante
    STEMS 3 lampeggia.
  2. Per eseguire un’azione, premi un pad.


Azioni possibili:

 Banco 1/2                            Effetti

   Pad 1             Prima pressione: imposta il punto di
                                  ingresso (IN)
                    Seconda pressione: modifica il punto di
                                  ingresso (IN)

   Pad 2             Prima pressione: imposta il punto di
                                  uscita (OUT)
                    Seconda pressione: modifica il punto di
                                  uscita (OUT)

   Pad 3                     Attiva/disattiva il loop
   Pad 4              Sposta l’indicatore di riproduzione
                      all’inizio del loop e riproduce il loop
                                     (Reloop)

 Selettore          Aumenta/riduce la lunghezza del loop
AUTOLOOP




                                67
Modalità 8




In DJUCED, la modalità 8 corrisponde alla modalità
BeatJump. In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, la
modalità 8 corrisponde alla modalità Scratch Banks.

In DJUCED, la modalità 8 corrisponde alla modalità
BeatJump. Questa modalità ti permette di effettuare un
salto preciso all’interno del brano.

  1. Per accedere alla modalità 8 (BeatJump), premi
    simultaneamente SHIFT e SAMPLER 4. Il pulsante
    SAMPLER 4 lampeggia.
  2. Per effettuare un salto, premi un pad.


Lunghezza del salto:

   Banco 1 / Banco 2                      Salto

           Pad 1                  Vai indietro un battito
           Pad 2                  Vai avanti un battito
           Pad 3                   Vai indietro 2 battiti
           Pad 4                   Vai avanti 2 battiti
           Pad 5                   Vai indietro 4 battiti
           Pad 6                   Vai avanti 4 battiti
           Pad 7                   Vai indietro 8 battiti
           Pad 8                   Vai avanti 8 battiti


                             68
In Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, la modalità 8
corrisponde alla modalità Scratch Banks. Questa
modalità ti consente di caricare istantaneamente nel
banco una campionatura di scratching, per scratchare
con il piatto motorizzato al posto del brano attualmente
in     ascolto,   tornando     poi   rapidamente     al   brano
attualmente in ascolto.
Per visualizzare il panello delle campionature di
scratching, clicca su        in Serato DJ Lite.


     1. Per accedere alla modalità 8 (Scratch Banks), premi
       simultaneamente SHIFT e SAMPLER 4. Il pulsante
       SAMPLER 4 lampeggia.
     2. Per riprodurre una campionatura di scratching,
       premi un pad.
     3. Per interrompere l’ascolto di una campionatura di
       scratching e tornare al brano precedentemente in
       riproduzione, premi simultaneamente SHIFT e il pad
       corrispondente.


Campionature:

      Banco 1 / Banco 2                Campionatura

             Pad 1                           Ahh!
             Pad 2                        Hey You!
             Pad 3                          Oww!
             Pad 4                          Yeah!


                                69
Scratching
Lo scratching consiste nel creare un effetto sonoro da un
brano, ruotando il piatto motorizzato.


Posiziona il tuo dito indice sul piatto motorizzato ed
esegui piccoli e rapidi movimenti a destra e a sinistra.


Puoi ripetere più volte questo scratch, per creare un
ritmo.




 − Prima di scratchare o mixare, accertati di aver
   inserito un tappetino in feltro tra il piatto motorizzato
   e il disco in vinile.
 − Quando collochi il disco in vinile sul piatto
   motorizzato,       non   forzarlo:     rischieresti     di
   danneggiare il centro del disco in vinile.




                            70
Filtri
La regolazione del filtro del brano ti consente di
attenuare certe frequenze.


  − Attenuare le alte frequenze (noto anche come filtro
    low-pass o filtro high-cut): ruota la manopola filtro
    (FILTER) verso sinistra.
  − Attenuare le basse frequenze (noto anche come
    filtro high-pass o filtro high-cut): ruota la manopola
    filtro (FILTER) verso destra.




                             71
  6.     Scheda audio multicanale
Il controller DJControl Inpulse T7 include una scheda
audio multicanale integrata, che ti permette di riprodurre
il tuo mix per il pubblico tramite gli altoparlanti (uscita
Master per altoparlanti), monitorare il brano in coda che
stai preparando con le tue cuffie (uscita cuffie) e
utilizzare un microfono e/o una periferica dotata di in
un’uscita di linea come sorgente audio.




                            72
Uscita master per altoparlanti (uscita 1-2)
I tuoi altoparlanti attivi devono essere collegato a una
delle due uscite Master per altoparlanti presenti sul retro
del tuo controller DJ.




È possibile utilizzare simultaneamente entrambi i
formati di uscita: ad esempio, collegando una coppia di
uscite al sistema PA e una seconda coppia di uscite
agli altoparlanti da monitoraggio.




                            73
Uscita cuffie (uscita 3-4)
Le tue cuffie devono essere collegate a una delle due
uscite cuffie       presenti sulla parte frontale del tuo
controller DJ.




Per default, ogni volta che viene collegato il tuo
controller DJ, l’uscita cuffie viene assegnata all’uscita 3-
4, in modo che possa funzionare con tutti i software per
DJ disponibili sul mercato — compresi DJUCED® e
Serato DJ Lite, in particolare.

Tuttavia, se per esempio desiderassi utilizzare l’uscita
cuffie del tuo controller DJ per ascoltare la musica sul
tuo computer utilizzando iTunes, dovrai instradare
l’uscita 1-2 sull’uscita cuffie. Per far questo, premi il
pulsante         presente sotto al VU meter MASTER.


                            74
Ti sconsigliamo di collegare contemporaneamente due
paia di cuffie (ossia una al connettore mini-jack in
uscita da 3,5 mm e una al connettore jack in uscita da
6,35 mm). Se le due cuffie non dovessero avere la
stessa    impedenza,   avrebbero   volumi   in   uscita
differenti.




                         75
Ingresso microfono
Il tuo microfono deve essere collegato all’ingresso
Microfono presente sul retro del tuo controller DJ.
L’ingresso microfono è bilanciato.




                           76
Puoi     collegare     un      microfono      bilanciato   o   non
bilanciato. Un microfono bilanciato produce un suono
più chiaro e più potente, con minori effetti legati alla
respirazione. Se il tuo microfono bilanciato fosse
collegato senza l'utilizzo di un cavo bilanciato, il cavo
del tuo microfono ridurrà la qualità del suono del tuo
microfono.


                            Cavo bilanciato

              Tip (Punta)
            Ring (Anello)

       Sleeve (Manicotto)




                      Cavo non bilanciato


              Tip (Punta)


       Sleeve (Manicotto)




                                  77
  7.     Compatibilità

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Questo controller DJ è Plug & Play e funziona senza
driver con DJUCED su qualsiasi PC o Mac, visto che
soddisfa gli standard USB Audio e USB MIDI.



Pannello di controllo ASIO e Windows®
Per utilizzare il controller DJControl Inpulse T7 con
Serato DJ Lite, devi installare i driver ASIO. I driver
ASIO sono disponibili qui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Se stai utilizzando DJUCED, puoi anche scaricare i
driver ASIO per sfruttare il vantaggio di una bassa
latenza sul tuo PC.


I driver ASIO sono accompagnati da un pannello di
controllo accessibile dalla barra delle applicazioni del
PC,      oppure       dalla        cartella   C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.
Questo pannello ti permette di regolare i vari parametri
ASIO, comprese le dimensioni del buffer e della latenza.




                              78
Per regolare i parametri ASIO:
  − Imposta la dimensione del buffer ASIO a 4 o 8 ms.
  − Avvia il tuo software (es. DJUCED®) e seleziona il
    driver DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO):




Non appena il software inizia a utilizzare il driver ASIO
driver, le impostazioni ASIO non potranno più essere
modificate dal pannello di controllo. Ciò è perfettamente
normale e sta ad indicare che il driver ASIO è in uso.




                           79
Usa il tuo software e ascolta con attenzione qualsiasi
eventuale difetto o artefatto nell’audio (clic, scoppiettii) o
problema     con     la   latenza.    Qualora     dovessero
manifestarsi difetti o artefatti, per risolvere il problema
avrai bisogno di aumentare la dimensione del buffer.


Chiudi il tuo software e regola il tuo buffer ASIO di un
valore per volta:
  − Riduci la dimensione del buffer per abbassare la
     latenza.
  − Qualora notassi difetti o artefatti nell’audio, aumenta
     la dimensione del buffer.


Dovrai ripetere questa procedura finché non troverai la
dimensione del buffer ottimale per il tuo sistema.


I driver sono disponibili qui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Aggiornamento del firmware
Il tuo controller DJ controller dispone di una modalità
automatica per l’aggiornamento del firmware. Questa
richiede l’installazione dei driver Hercules e che tu segua
poi le istruzioni sullo schermo. L’aggiornamento del
firmware viene eseguito automaticamente.


I driver sono disponibili qui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Anche il pannello di controllo, nella scheda ABOUT
(INFO    SU),    ti   permette    di   accedere   a   questa
informazione, oltre a visualizzare le diverse versioni dei
driver installati nel tuo computer. Tieni sotto mano
questa    informazione,     qualora     dovessi   contattare
l’assistenza tecnica Hercules.




                             81
Testare il controller DJ dal pannello di
controllo
Nella sezione ABOUT (INFO SU) del pannello di
controllo DJControl Inpulse T7, puoi testare il suono, i
controlli MIDI, le luci e i piatti motorizzati del tuo
controller DJ.


Per accedere al pannello di controllo, accedi alla
seguente                cartella:               C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Test audio

Per controllare che l’interfaccia audio del controller
DJControl Inpulse T7 stia producendo del suono (senza
utilizzare un software DJ per questa operazione), clicca
sull’icona a forma di altoparlante. Durante il test, l’icona
diventerà verde e il programma riprodurrà un suono
attraverso le uscite Master per altoparlanti e cuffie.




                             82
  2. Test dei controlli MIDI

Per verificare che i controlli MIDI del controller DJControl
Inpulse T7 funzionino correttamente (senza utilizzare un
software DJ per questa operazione), prova ad utilizzare i
pulsanti o gli altri controlli che desideri controllare. Se il
connettore DIN diventa verde, significa che il comando
MIDI è stato ricevuto e che il pulsante, o altro controllo,
sta funzionando correttamente.




                             83
  3. Test delle luci

Per verificare che i LED del controller DJControl
Inpulse T7 funzionino correttamente (senza utilizzare un
software DJ per questa operazione), clicca sull’icona a
forma di lampadina per accendere i LED del controller.
Durante il test, l’icona diventa verde e i LED del
controller si illuminano.




 Puoi accendere tutti i LED del controller DJControl
 Inpulse T7    anche    premendo   simultaneamente    i
 pulsanti IN e OUT di entrambi i banchi.




                            84
  4. Test dei piatti motorizzati

Per verificare che i piatti motorizzati del controller
DJControl Inpulse T7 funzionino correttamente (senza
utilizzare un software DJ per questa operazione), clicca
l’icona del piatto 1 o 2. Durante il test, le icone del
relativo banco e del connettore DIN diventano verdi,
mentre i piatti motorizzati del controller si muovono
(ossia ruotano).


Test del piatto motorizzato numero 1:




Test del piatto motorizzato numero 2:




                          85
  8.      Modalità demo
Questa modalità è disponibile quando colleghi il tuo
controller DJ a un alimentatore e a un alimentatore USB
senza computer, per utilizzarlo, in particolare, in un
negozio. In questo caso, il controller DJ non funziona se
non in modalità demo: una sequenza dimostrativa
accende    le   varie   luci    del   controller   ripetendosi
continuamente.




                               86
  9.     FAQ

 1.      Dalle mie cuffie non esce alcun
      suono.
Assicurati di aver collegato le tue cuffie sulla parte
frontale del controller DJ, dato che il tuo controller DJ è
dotato di una scheda audio multicanale preconfigurata
per lavorare con DJUCED® e Serato DJ Lite.
Per default, al primo avvio del software i due pulsanti di
monitoraggio sono attivi. Dopodiché potrai scegliere
quale banco ascoltare con le tue cuffie, oppure premere
il pulsante          sotto al VU meter MASTER per
ascoltare il risultato del tuo mix.




                              87
  2.       Il suono proveniente dalle mie
     cuffie è distorto o troppo debole.
Assicurati che le tue cuffie dispongano di un connettore
TRS (cuffie standard) e non di un connettore TRRS
(cuffie + microfono).


        Tip (Punta)                     Tip (Punta)
       Ring (Anello)                    Ring (Anello)
                                        Ring (Anello)
 Sleeve (Manicotto)
                                        Sleeve (Manicotto)




I connettori TRRS non sono compatibili con il controller
DJControl Inpulse T7.




                          88
  3.      Dai       miei           altoparlanti         non
        proviene alcun suono.
Assicurati di aver collegato i tuoi altoparlanti ai connettori
RCA o XLR sul retro del controller DJ, dato che il tuo
controller DJ è dotato di una scheda audio multicanale
preconfigurata per lavorare con DJUCED® e Serato DJ
Lite.


Per verificare (senza utilizzare un software DJ) se
l’interfaccia audio del controller DJControl Inpulse T7
stia producendo dei suoni, puoi visualizzare il pannello di
controllo del controller DJ. Clicca sulla scheda ABOUT
(INFO     SU),   quindi   clicca    sull’icona   a   forma   di
altoparlante. Quando vengono riprodotti dei suoni,
l’icona diventa verde.




                             89
 4.       Dagli       altoparlanti           del     mio
      computer portatile non proviene
      alcun suono.
Il tuo controller DJ è dotato di una scheda audio
multicanale preconfigurata. Se desideri utilizzare gli
altoparlanti integrati nel tuo computer portatile:
  − In DJUCED®, accedi alle impostazioni e spunta
      l’opzione   SEND     MASTER       TO     COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS        (INVIA      IL     MASTER      AGLI
      ALTOPARLANTI DEL COMPUTER).




  − In Serato DJ Lite, accedi alle impostazioni, apri la
      scheda Audio e spunta l’opzione Use Laptop
      Speakers (Usa Altoparlanti Del Portatile).




                             90
 5.       Dalle        mie        cuffie      o      dagli
      altoparlanti         del      mio       computer
      portatile, non proviene alcun suono.
Per default, il suono esce dall’uscita Master per
altoparlanti e dall’uscita cuffie. Pertanto, è normale che
dal tuo computer portatile non provenga alcun suono.


Se desideri utilizzare gli altoparlanti integrati nel tuo
computer portatile:
  − In DJUCED®, accedi alle impostazioni e spunta
      l’opzione   SEND      MASTER       TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS         (INVIA      IL    MASTER           AGLI
      ALTOPARLANTI DEL COMPUTER. Devi collegare
      le tue cuffie al controller DJControl Inpulse T7.




                             91
  − In Serato DJ Lite, accedi alle impostazioni, apri la
    scheda Audio e spunta l’opzione Use Laptop
    Speakers (Usa Altoparlanti Del Portatile). Devi
    collegare le tue cuffie al controller DJControl
    Inpulse T7.




Per verificare (senza utilizzare un software DJ) se
l’interfaccia audio del controller DJControl Inpulse T7
stia producendo dei suoni, puoi visualizzare il pannello di
controllo del controller DJ. Clicca sulla scheda ABOUT
(INFO   SU),   quindi    clicca   sull’icona   a   forma   di
altoparlante. Quando vengono riprodotti dei suoni,
l’icona diventa verde.




                            92
 6.       Sto riscontrando dei problemi
      nella       qualità        del      suono         con
      Windows®.

Il volume della traccia in ascolto è troppo
debole

Il volume master del software DJ è indipendente dai
comandi del volume presenti sul controller DJ. Pertanto,
se il volume master del software DJ software è troppo
basso, anche il volume dell'uscita Master risulterà
basso.

Controlla il volume del software DJ e aumentalo, se
necessario.

  − In DJUCED, usa il pulsante del volume presente
      nella barra in alto a destra della finestra.




  − In Serato DJ Lite, usa il pulsante del volume
      presente nella barra in alto a destra della finestra.




                              93
Il volume nelle mie cuffie è troppo basso

In Serato DJ Lite, accedi alle impostazioni, apri la
scheda Audio e non spuntare (ossia deseleziona)
l'opzione Use Laptop Speakers (Usa Altoparlanti Del
Portatile).




                        94
Qualora dovessi mantenere spuntata (ossia selezionata)
l'opzione Use Laptop Speakers (Usa Altoparlanti Del
Portatile), imposta la scheda audio integrata del
computer come “Altoparlanti computer”:
  1. Chiudi il software Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Accedi alle impostazioni di Windows, seleziona
     System (Sistema) e poi Sound (Suono).
  3. In Output, seleziona la scheda audio integrata del
     computer. Il tuo controller DJ non deve più essere
     selezionato come dispositivo di uscita.




Windows® potrebbe aver selezionato il tuo controller DJ
come scheda audio di Windows®. Se mantieni questa
impostazione, l'opzione Use Laptop Speakers (Usa
Altoparlanti Del Portatile) può riprodurre l'uscita Master
sull'uscita a 4 canali del tuo controller DJ (uscita Master
+ cuffie).




                            95
Il suono non è chiaro

In DJUCED®:
Ti consigliamo di utilizzare una periferica audio ASIO.
Con una periferica WASAPI, la qualità del suono risulta
generalmente buona. Tuttavia, la latenza potrebbe
crescere e il suono potrebbe non essere chiaro.


Accedi alle impostazioni, clicca sulla scheda Audio e
seleziona DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) come
Audio device (Periferica audio).




In Serato DJ Lite:
Accedi alle impostazioni, apri la scheda Audio e non
spuntare (ossia deseleziona) l'opzione Use Laptop
Speakers (Usa Altoparlanti Del Portatile).




                           96
 7. Non posso collegare i miei altoparlanti
    multimediali           al     mio        DJControl
    Inpulse T7.
Se i connettori dei tuoi altoparlanti differiscono dai
connettori sul controller DJControl Inpulse T7, per
collegare degli altoparlanti multimediali, puoi utilizzare
un adattatore da RCA doppio a mini-jack da 3,5 mm
(non incluso), un adattatore da doppio XLR a jack da
6,35 mm (non incluso), oppure qualsiasi altro formato di
adattatore corrispondente ai tuoi altoparlanti.
Puoi collegare i tuoi altoparlanti anche all’uscita cuffie e
instradare l’uscita 1-2 sull’uscita 3-4, premendo il
pulsante       presente sotto al VU meter MASTER.



  8.       Il controller DJControl Inpulse T7
    è compatibile con un iPad o un
    iPhone?
No, il controller DJControl Inpulse T7 non è compatibile
con un iPad o un iPhone. Funziona soltanto con un PC o
un Mac.




                            97
  9.       Come        posso             collegare        il
     controller DJControl Inpulse T7 a
     una porta USB-C o a una porta
     Thunderbolt 3?
Puoi collegare il controller DJControl Inpulse T7 a una
porta USB-C o a una porta Thunderbolt 3 in tre modi
diversi:
  − Tramite un adattatore (da USB-C [maschio] o
     Thunderbolt 3 a USB-A [femmina]) tra il computer e
     il controller DJ. Tieni presente che alcuni adattatori
     a basso costo non funzioneranno correttamente, in
     quanto estromettono una parte dell’alimentazione.
  − Utilizzando un dock (USB-C o Thunderbolt 3) tra il
     computer e il controller DJ. Assicurati che il dock
     abbia un alimentatore dedicato, in quanto un dock
     alimentato    unicamente    dalla    porta   USB-C   o
     Thunderbolt 3 potrebbe non disporre della potenza
     necessaria.
  − Sostituendo l’accluso cavo USB con un cavo da
     USB-C o Thunderbolt 3 a USB-B 2.0.




                            98
  ASSISTENZA TECNICA
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Marchi registrati
Intel® e Intel Core™ sono marchi o marchi registrati di proprietà di Intel
Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 è un marchio registrato o un marchio di
proprietà di Microsoft Corporation negli Stati Uniti e/o in altri paesi.
Mac® e macOS® sono marchi di proprietà di Apple Inc., registrati negli
Stati Uniti e in altri paesi.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro sono marchi registrati di
proprietà di Serato Audio Research Limited.
Il brand DJUCED e gli elementi grafici di DJUCED sono di proprietà di
Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO è un marchio di proprietà di Steinberg Media Technologies
GmbH.
Tutti gli altri marchi e nomi commerciali vengono riportati nel presente
documento previa autorizzazione e appartengono ai legittimi proprietari.
Illustrazioni puramente indicative. Contenuti, design e caratteristiche
riportati nel presente documento possono essere oggetto di modifiche
senza preavviso e potrebbero variare da una nazione all’altra.




                                     100
Copyright
Nessuna parte del presente manuale può essere riprodotta, riassunta,
trasmessa, trascritta, salvata in un sistema di recupero o tradotta in
qualsiasi lingua o linguaggio di computer, in qualsiasi forma o modo,
elettronicamente, meccanicamente, magneticamente, manualmente,
tramite fotocopie, registrazioni o altro, senza l’espresso consenso scritto
da parte di Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                   101
Contratto di Licenza Utente Finale
DJUCED® e Serato DJ Lite
Ti invitiamo a leggere attentamente il Contratto di Licenza visualizzato
durante l’installazione di DJUCED® e Serato DJ Lite.




                                  102
Manual del usuario
           TABLA DE CONTENIDO


1.   CONTENIDO DE LA CAJA ........................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   ESPECIFICACIONES TÉCNICAS .............. 10

3.   CARACTERÍSTICAS ................................... 13

     Descripción general .......................................13

     Decks................................................................14

     Mezclas ............................................................32

     Conectores ......................................................43

4.   INSTALACIÓN ............................................. 46

     Conexiones .....................................................46

     Descarga del software ...................................49

5.   ANIMACIÓN DE TU MEZCLA ..................... 54

     Modos y pads..................................................54

     Scratching .......................................................70

     Filtros ...............................................................71
6.   TARJETA DE SONIDO MULTICANAL ....... 72

     Salida Master de altavoces (salida 1-2) ......73

     Salida de auriculares (salida 3-4).................74

     Entrada de micrófono ....................................76

7.   COMPATIBILIDAD ...................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     Panel de control ASIO y Windows® .............78

     Actualización de firmware ............................81

     Prueba de la controladora de DJ en el panel

     de control.........................................................82

8.   MODO DE DEMOSTRACIÓN...................... 86

9.   PREGUNTAS FRECUENTES ..................... 87
Hercules   DJControl   Inpulse T7    es   una   completa
controladora diseñada para ayudarte a dominar el arte
de los giradiscos de vinilo gracias a dos platos
motorizados, tutoriales en vídeo y la integración del
software DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 incluye una licencia de
Serato DJ Lite, pero no una licencia de Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite se puede usar sin límite de tiempo.
Si instalas Serato DJ Pro en lugar de Serato DJ Lite,
Serato DJ Pro funcionará con la DJControl Inpulse T7
durante un periodo de prueba. Al final de este periodo
de prueba, si deseas seguir usando Serato DJ Pro,
deberás comprar una licencia de Serato DJ Pro.




                          4
Hay disponibles una amplia variedad de tutoriales en
vídeo para ayudarte a aprender a mezclar con la
controladora Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (en inglés):
       o En DJUCED®, haciendo clic en el icono    .
       o En el sitio web de DJUCED®.
  − El canal de YouTube de Hercules Audio (en
    inglés).
  − The DJ Coach, con cursos impartidos por DJ
    HAPA sobre Serato DJ Lite (en inglés).




                         5
 1.    Contenido de la caja

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Dos discos de vinilo (7 pulgadas / 17,8 cm)
 − Dos alfombrillas de fieltro
 − Cable USB trenzado
 − Cable de alimentación extraíble
 − Adaptador de corriente
 − Manual de instrucciones
 − Folleto de garantía




                            6
Puedes quitar las películas protectoras que cubren los
indicadores visuales de la controladora Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7. También puedes dejar puestas
las películas protectoras, ya que no afectan al uso de
los indicadores visuales.




                            7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Dos discos de vinilo (7 pulgadas / 17,8 cm)
 − Dos alfombrillas de fieltro
 − Dos alfombrillas de fieltro finas
 − Cable USB trenzado
 − Cable de alimentación extraíble
 − Adaptador de corriente
 − Bolsa de transporte
 − Manual de instrucciones
 − Folleto de garantía




Puedes retirar las películas protectoras que cubren
los indicadores visuales de la controladora Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition. También
puedes dejarlas puestas, ya que no afectan al uso de
los indicadores visuales.




                            9
  2.    Especificaciones técnicas
Requisitos del sistema:
  − DJUCED®:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (en inglés)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (en inglés)


Salidas de audio:
        o Resolución = 24 bits
        o Frecuencia de muestreo = 44,1 kHz


Salidas Master para altavoces (salida 1-2) mediante:
  − Dos conectores RCA:
        o Potencia máxima de salida = 7 dBU a 1 kΩ
  − Dos conectores XLR (equilibrados):
        o Potencia máxima de salida = 13 dBU a 1 kΩ


Salida de auriculares (salida 3-4) mediante un conector
mini-jack estéreo de 3,5 mm y un conector jack estéreo
de 6,35 mm:
        o Potencia máxima de salida = 5 dBU para
          32 Ω a 1 kHz


Entrada de micrófono a través de un conector jack de
6,35 mm (equilibrado)
                          10
              Fuente de alimentación
− Usa únicamente la fuente de alimentación indicada
  en el manual del usuario.
− Usa únicamente la fuente de alimentación con la
  tensión y frecuencia de red indicadas en su placa
  de características.




                         11
  Información sobre la fuente de alimentación
   Información               Valor             Unidad
    publicada
    Nombre del            GUILLEMOT
fabricante o marca    CORPORATION S.A.
     registrada    414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
    Numero de      2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
      empresa
                        56910 Carentoir
     Dirección
                            Francia
 Identificador de      A481-1852590D
     modelo
   Tensión de              100 - 240             V
    entrada
Frecuencia de CA             50 - 60            Hz
   de entrada
Tensión de salida             18,5             V CC
Corriente de salida           2,6                A
Potencia de salida            47,9               W
 Eficiencia activa            87,8               %
     promedio
 Eficiencia a baja            87,8               %
   carga (10%)
  Consumo de                  0,10               W
energía sin carga




                        12
 3.     Características

Descripción general




 1. Plato motorizado
 2. Botones de transporte (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Controles de bucle (Loop)
 4. Controles de selección de pista (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Fader de tempo (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads y modos
 7. Modos de reproducción
 8. Monitorización, volúmenes (Master, auriculares y
      micrófono) y Beatmatch Guide
 9. Sección de mezclas (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mezclador (crossfader, faders de volumen)
 11. Efectos




                         13
Decks

  1. Plato motorizado




Alfombrilla de fieltro: se coloca entre el plato
motorizado y el disco de vinilo. Protege el disco de vinilo
del roce contra el plato y reduce las vibraciones al
reproducir el disco.




 Siempre debes asegurarte de colocar la alfombrilla de
 fieltro en el plato motorizado antes de colocar el disco
 de vinilo.




                            14
Disco de vinilo: te permite hacer scratching, acelerar o
ralentizar la reproducción y moverte por dentro de la
pista.
La línea en la etiqueta del disco de vinilo es un punto de
referencia (es decir, un marcador) para mezclar y hacer
scratching.


La acción realizada depende de dos criterios:
  − pista en reproducción o en pausa;
  − el lugar donde estás tocando el disco de vinilo
     (parte superior (top) o anillo (ring)).


                        Parte superior




         Anillo




                              15
Acciones de los discos de vinilo con Serato DJ Lite y
Serato DJ Pro:


                          Plato
 Reproducir/pausa                        Botón SHIFT
                        motorizado
     Reproducir        Parte superior             -
                       Scratching
                           Parte            Pulsar y
     Reproducir
                       superior/Anillo      mantener
      Moverse rápidamente por dentro de la pista
     Reproducir            Anillo                 -
          Acelerar o ralentizar la reproducción
                           Parte
       Pausa                                      -
                       superior/Anillo
       Moverse lentamente por dentro de la pista
                           Parte            Pulsar y
       Pausa
                       superior/Anillo      mantener
      Moverse rápidamente por dentro de la pista




                          16
Acciones de los discos de vinilo con DJUCED®:


                         Plato
 Reproducir/pausa                        Botón SHIFT
                       motorizado
     Reproducir       Parte superior              -
                       Scratching
                          Parte            Pulsar y
     Reproducir
                      superior/Anillo      mantener
      Moverse rápidamente por dentro de la pista
     Reproducir            Anillo                 -
          Acelerar o ralentizar la reproducción
       Pausa               Anillo                 -
       Moverse lentamente por dentro de la pista




                          17
Plato motorizado: acciona el disco de vinilo que
controla la reproducción de la pista y la velocidad de la
pista según el tempo establecido con el fader de tempo.


Cuando la función Beatmatch Guide está activada, las
guías visuales BEAT ALIGN indican la dirección en la
que debe girar el anillo (es decir, el borde) del plato
motorizado para alinear los beat grids de las dos pistas.
Cuando las dos flechas rojas no están encendidas, los
beat grids están alineados.


Para   obtener   más   información   sobre   la   función
Beatmatch Guide, lee la sección Beatmatch Guide.




 No es posible desactivar la motorización de los platos.




 − Cuando el plato motorizado esté girando, evita
   mantenerlo parado con la mano durante mucho
   tiempo, para no dañar el sistema de accionamiento.
 − No fuerces el disco de vinilo al colocarlo sobre el
   plato motorizado, ya que te arriesgas a dañar el
   centro del disco.



                              18
  2. Botones de transporte




SHIFT: control combinado. Por ejemplo:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): bloquea la clave
    musical de la pista.
  − SHIFT + IN: en DJUCED®, divide entre dos el
    tamaño del bucle activo.


SYNC: activa o desactiva la sincronización automática
de los valores de BPM (beats por minuto) de dos pistas.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o En DJUCED®: convierte el deck en el deck de
        sincronización maestro (Master Sync).
      o En Serato DJ Lite: desactiva la sincronización
        en el deck.




                           19
CUE: inserta un punto Cue en la pista para identificar un
instante específico, o mueve el cabezal de reproducción
del deck a la posición del punto Cue.
  − Pista en pausa: inserta un punto Cue en el lugar
    donde se detiene la pista.
  − Reproducción de pista: detiene la reproducción de
    la pista y mueve el cabezal del deck al punto Cue.
      o En DJUCED®, si no se ha definido ningún
        punto Cue, al pulsar CUE se detiene la
        reproducción y se coloca un punto Cue en la
        posición del cabezal de reproducción.
      o En Serato DJ Lite, si no se ha definido ningún
        punto Cue, al pulsar CUE se detiene la
        reproducción y se coloca un punto Cue al
        comienzo de la pista.
  − CUE + PLAY: mueve el cabezal de reproducción al
    punto Cue y reproduce la pista desde ese punto.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o En DJUCED®: mueve el cabezal al comienzo
        de la pista y detiene la reproducción.
      o En Serato DJ Lite: mueve el cabezal al
        comienzo de la pista e inicia la reproducción.


Reproducir/Pausa: reproduce o pausa la pista.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: en Serato DJ Lite, mueve el
    cabezal al punto Cue y reproduce la pista desde
    este marcador.

                           20
  3. Controles de bucle




Codificador AUTOLOOP:
  − Pulsar    el    codificador:   activa   o   desactiva   la
    reproducción del bucle.
  − Girar el codificador: ajusta la duración del bucle.


IN/OUT: activa un bucle eligiendo el punto de entrada
(IN) y el punto de salida (OUT).
Cuando el bucle está activo (es decir, activado):
  − Pulsa IN (el botón parpadea) y gira el plato
    motorizado para mover el inicio del bucle.
  − Pulsa OUT (el botón parpadea) y gira el plato
    motorizado para mover el final del bucle.
Para salir del bucle, pulsa el codificador AUTOLOOP.
En DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: divide entre dos el tamaño del bucle
    activo.
  − SHIFT + OUT: multiplica por dos el tamaño del
    bucle activo.
  − Pulsación prolongada de IN: activa un bucle de
    cuatro beats.

                              21
  4. Controles de selección de pista




Codificador BROWSER*: te permite navegar por tu
biblioteca de música y la lista de pistas girando el
codificador hacia la izquierda (arriba) o hacia la derecha
(abajo).
Pulsa el codificador para seleccionar carpetas y cargar
la pista seleccionada en el deck de destino.


Anillo iluminado:
  − En DJUCED®, muestra el nivel de energía de la
    pista maestra para el tempo.
  − En Serato DJ Lite, muestra el ritmo. La luz
    parpadea al ritmo de la pista:
           o Rojo: indica el primer beat.
           o Azul: indica los tres beats siguientes.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − En DJUCED®, muestra el panel que sugiere las
    mejores próximas pistas para tu mezcla.
    Para desplazarte por la lista de pistas sugeridas,
    gira el codificador BROWSER.
    Para seleccionar una pista, pulsa el codificador
    BROWSER. La pista ya cargada en este deck debe
    estar en pausa.
    Pulsa ASSIST./PREP. y gira el codificador para
    ajustar el nivel de energía de las pistas sugeridas.
  − En Serato DJ Lite, añade la pista que se está
    reproduciendo actualmente a la lista Prepare
    (Preparar).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: abre el panel Prepare
    (Preparar).


BACK*: te permite moverte por la estructura de árbol en
DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite.
  − En DJUCED®, pulsa SHIFT y BACK para volver a la
    columna Biblioteca.




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.
                           23
  5. Fader de tempo




Fader    de      tempo:    establece    la    velocidad   de
reproducción de la pista ajustando el número de BPM.
  − Mover hacia arriba: ralentiza la pista.
  − Mover hacia abajo: acelera la pista.
  − Fader de tempo en el medio: la velocidad original
    de la pista. El LED blanco está encendido.


Cuando la función Beatmatch Guide está activada, las
guías visuales TEMPO indican si necesitas mover el
fader de tempo hacia arriba o hacia abajo para ralentizar
o acelerar la pista. Cuando las dos flechas rojas están
apagadas, el tempo de ese deck es idéntico al tempo
del otro deck.


Para    obtener    más    información   sobre    la   función
Beatmatch Guide, lee la sección Beatmatch Guide.



                             24
En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, cuando está activado
el modo SYNC, pulsar SHIFT y mover el atenuador de
tempo al mismo tiempo te permite mover los valores del
fader de tempo manteniendo la amplitud.


Por ejemplo, con una escala de tempo de ±8%, o 16%
de amplitud, puedes mover los valores del fader de
tempo para cubrir desde 0% (máximo) hasta -16%
(mínimo), lo que aún da como resultado un 16% de
amplitud, con -8% en el centro.




                           25
RANGE*: te permite cambiar la escala de tempo de los
faders de tempo.
  − En DJUCED®: ±6%, ±8%, ±10%, ±12%, ±16%,
     ±20%, ±25%, ±33%, ±50%.
  − En Serato DJ Lite: ±8%, ±16%, ±50%.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): bloquea la clave musical
de la pista.
Para   asegurarte   de   que    la   clave   musical   esté
bloqueada, pulsa SHIFT. El botón RANGE está
encendido.




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.
                           26
  6. Pads y modos




Botones de modo: te permiten activar hasta ocho
modos.
Para activar un modo principal, pulsa HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 o SAMPLER 4.
Para activar un modo secundario (MODE 5, MODE 6,
MODE 7 y MODE 8), pulsa simultáneamente SHIFT y
HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 o SAMPLER 4. El
botón de modo parpadea.
Los modos activados en los pads varían según el
software que se use.


Para obtener más información sobre los diferentes
modos con DJUCED®, Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro,
lee la sección Modos y pads.


Pads de actuación: un pad realiza una acción.




                          27
  7. Modos de reproducción




INSTRUMENTAL: te permite reproducir sólo las partes
de Melodía, Bajos y Tambores de una pista. Este es un
atajo para el modo Stems.
  − Para reproducir sólo las partes de Melodía, Bajos y
    Tambores    de    una        pista,   pulsa   el   botón
    INSTRUMENTAL. El botón se ilumina.
  − Para reanudar la reproducción de todas las partes
    de una pista (Voces, Melodía, Bajos y Tambores),
    pulsa nuevamente el botón INSTRUMENTAL. La
    luz del botón se apaga.




                            28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: activa el modo Slip. En el
modo Slip, el cabezal de reproducción del deck continúa
avanzando en segundo plano cuando aplicas un efecto
o un bucle, colocas un punto Cue o usas los platos
motorizados. Cuando dejas de aplicar un efecto, la
reproducción se reanuda desde el punto donde estaría
la pista si se hubiera seguido reproduciendo.
Para asegurarte de que el modo Slip está activado,
pulsa SHIFT. El botón INSTRUMENTAL está iluminado.




Serato DJ Lite no incluye el modo Slip.
Serato DJ Pro incluye el modo Slip.




                           29
VOCAL: te permite reproducir sólo la parte de Voces de
una pista. Este es un atajo para el modo Stems.
  − Para reproducir sólo la parte de Voces de una pista,
    pulsa el botón VOCAL. El botón se ilumina.
  − Para reanudar la reproducción de todas las partes
    de una pista (Voces, Melodía, Bajos y Tambores),
    pulsa nuevamente el botón VOCAL. La luz del
    botón se apaga.


SHIFT + VOCAL: activa el modo Quantize. La
cuantización te permite aplicar una acción en el
siguiente beat de la rejilla (reproducir la pista, colocar un
punto Cue, iniciar un bucle…).
Para asegurarte de que el modo Quantize esté activado,
pulsa SHIFT. El botón VOCAL está iluminado.




 Serato DJ Lite no incluye el modo Quantize.
 Serato DJ Pro incluye el modo Quantize.




                             30
        (pitch bend -) /      (pitch bend +): te permite
alinear manualmente el beat grid de la pista que se está
reproduciendo en este deck con el beat grid del otro
deck.
  − Mantén        pulsado              para     ralentizar
    momentáneamente el deck.
  − Mantén        pulsado               para     acelerar
    momentáneamente el deck.




En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +            y
SHIFT +         te permiten ajustar la configuración en
ciertos modos (Configuración).




                            31
Mezclas

  8. Monitorización,        volumen    y     Beatmatch
    Guide




Volumen MIC: ajusta el volumen del micrófono.


Anillo iluminado MIC: indica el nivel de la señal de
audio (indicador visual).
  − Apagado: no hay señal de audio.
  − Verde: se está reproduciendo la señal de audio.
  − Rojo: la señal de audio está saturada.


Volumen MASTER: ajusta el volumen de la mezcla que
se reproduce en los altavoces.


Indicador visual MASTER: muestra el nivel de la señal
de audio de salida Master (RCA o XLR) para altavoces.
                            32
Volumen HEADPHONES:
 −       /       : ajusta la señal que se reproduce en los
     auriculares,       mezclando      la     salida    Cue
     (monitorización de los decks 1 y 2) y la salida Mix
     (salida Master).
       o Para escuchar sólo la monitorización, pulsa los
         botones de monitorización de los decks 1 y 2.
         Los botones se iluminan. A continuación,
         coloca la perilla en Cue.
       o Para escuchar sólo la salida Master, pulsa el
         botón de monitorización Master. El botón se
         ilumina. A continuación, coloca la perilla en Mix
         para ajustar la mezcla que se reproduce en los
         auriculares.
 −           : ajusta el volumen de la salida de auriculares.




                              33
Monitorización: selecciona la fuente de sonido que se
reproduce en los auriculares.
  −         (situado debajo del indicador visual MASTER):
      reproduce el sonido de la mezcla que se está
      reproduciendo en voz alta para la audiencia.
  −        *   (situado   a   ambos   lados   del    botón
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): reproduce el sonido del
      deck 1 o deck 2 cuando el botón Cue/Mix está
      puesto en Cue.
En Serato DJ Lite, pulsa SHIFT y         * (junto al botón
BEATMATCH GUIDE) para modificar el beat grid de la
pista que se está reproduciendo en este deck. Para salir
del modo de edición del beat grid, haz clic en Edit Grid
(Editar la rejilla).




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: activa o desactiva las guías
luminosas para ajustar el tempo y alinear los beat grids
de las dos pistas. Hay cuatro flechas rojas por deck.




DJUCED® define uno de los decks como deck de
sincronización maestro (Master Sync) y el otro como
deck esclavo. Las flechas rojas sólo se iluminan en el
deck esclavo, ya que este deck sigue el tempo del
deck de sincronización maestro.
Serato DJ Lite no define un deck de sincronización
maestro. Las flechas rojas se iluminan en ambos
decks.




                           35
− Guías visuales TEMPO: si está encendida una de
 las dos flechas rojas ubicadas a la derecha de un
 fader de tempo, esto significa que el tempo (es
 decir, el número de beats por minuto) de la pista
 que se está reproduciendo en este deck es
 diferente al tempo del otro deck.
 Las flechas indican la dirección en la que debes
 mover el fader de tempo para ajustar el tempo de la
 pista que se está reproduciendo para que coincida
 con el tempo del otro deck.
       o Flecha superior iluminada: mueve el fader
          de tempo hacia arriba. Esto ralentizará el
          tempo.
       o Flecha inferior iluminada: mueve el fader
          de tempo hacia abajo. Esto acelerará el
          tempo.
       o Flechas no iluminadas: el tempo del deck
          es   idéntico    al   tempo   del   deck   de
          sincronización maestro.




                          36
− Guías visuales BEAT ALIGN: si está encendida una
  de las dos flechas rojas ubicadas debajo de un
  plato motorizado, esto significa que los beats de la
  pista que se está reproduciendo en este deck no
  están alineados con los beats del otro deck.
  Las flechas indican la dirección en la que debes
  girar el plato motorizado para alinear los beats de la
  pista que se está reproduciendo con los beats del
  otro deck.
        o Flecha izquierda iluminada: gira el plato
           motorizado en el sentido de las agujas del
           reloj.   Esto   acelera   la   velocidad   de
           reproducción.
        o Flecha derecha iluminada: gira el plato
           motorizado en sentido contrario al de las
           agujas del reloj. Esto ralentiza la velocidad
           de reproducción.
        o Flechas no encendidas: los beats del deck
           están alineados con los beats del otro
           deck.




                           37
  9. Sección de mezclas




Perilla GAIN*: ajusta la ganancia (es decir, el nivel de
volumen antes del fader de volumen).


Ecualizador de 3 bandas (EQ)*: controla la intensidad
del EQ. A cada banda se le asocia una perilla: HIGH,
MID y LOW.


Perilla FILTER*: ajusta la frecuencia del filtro dual (paso
alto y paso bajo).




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.
                            38
  10.    Mezclador




Indicador visual: muestra el nivel de la señal de audio
de los decks 1 y 2.


Fader de volumen*: ajusta el volumen del deck.


Crossfader: te permite hacer una transición entre dos
pistas aumentando el volumen de uno de los decks,
mientras disminuyes el volumen del otro deck.
  − Crossfader completamente hacia la izquierda: sólo
    escuchas la pista del deck 1.
  − Crossfader completamente hacia la derecha: sólo
    escuchas la pista del deck 2.
  − Crossfader en el medio: escuchas las pistas de
    ambos decks 1 y 2 al mismo tiempo.
                          39
Interruptor de curva: te permite modificar la curva del
crossfader.
  −       (mix): mezcla progresiva de los dos decks.
  −       (scratch): mezcla muy rápida de los dos decks.
  −        (desactivado): crossfader desactivado, para
      mezclar usando sólo los faders de volumen.




En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, puedes modificar
la configuración del crossfader. Ve a Configuración,
después a Mixer:
 − Power (Potencia): curva rápida para scratching.
 − Linear (Lineal): curva progresiva para mezclar.
 − Reverse       (Invertir):   invierte   la   dirección    del
   crossfader,      también      conocido      como        modo
   “Hamster”.




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.

                               40
  11.       Efectos




Para mostrar el rack de efectos:
  − En DJUCED®: haz clic en             .
  − En Serato DJ Lite: haga clic en                .


Botones      de   efectos       /           /      *:   te   permiten
seleccionar un efecto del rack de efectos. El botón se
ilumina.
Para activar un efecto, usa la palanca de actuación.
Para modificar los efectos asociados con los botones
  /     /    , selecciona un nuevo efecto en el rack de
efectos. En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, también
puedes pulsar SHIFT y       ,       o           para mostrar la lista
de efectos. A continuación, pulsa SHIFT y                    ,   o
nuevamente para moverte por la lista y seleccionar el
nuevo efecto.




En Serato DJ Lite:
− Es posible combinar múltiples efectos al mismo
  tiempo.

                            41
− Los tres efectos        /       /       de la izquierda se
  aplican al deck de la izquierda (Deck 1), y los tres
  efectos     /    /   de la derecha se aplican al deck
  de la derecha (Deck 2).
En Serato DJ Pro, los dos grupos de tres botones de
efectos se aplican a los dos decks virtuales.


Palanca de actuación*: te permite activar un efecto
cargado en los botones        ,       o   . Hay tres posiciones
diferentes:
  − HOLD: activa continuamente el efecto mientras la
    palanca está en esta posición.
  − ON: activa momentáneamente el efecto mientras la
    palanca está en esta posición.
  − Posición central: efecto desactivado.


Perilla DEPTH: ajusta la intensidad del efecto.


Botones       /   : ajustan la duración del ciclo del efecto
sincronizado con la música.




DJUCED® no incluye esta funcionalidad.




*La funcionalidad es idéntica en los decks 1 y 2.

                              42
Conectores




  12.    Salida maestra para altavoces (salida 1-2)
  13.    Entrada de micrófono equilibrada
  14.    Puerto USB-B 2.0
  15.    Botón POWER
  16.    Conector para adaptador de corriente
  17.    Salida de auriculares (salida 3-4)


Salida maestra para altavoces (salida 1-2): te permite
conectar altavoces activos.
Formatos: 2 x RCA no equilibrados (Cinch) y 2 x XLR
equilibrados.


Entrada de micrófono equilibrada: te permite conectar
un micrófono equilibrado o no equilibrado.
Formato: jack de 6,35 mm.




                              43
Puerto USB-B 2.0: te permite conectar la controladora a
un ordenador.


Botón POWER: te permite encender y apagar la
controladora DJControl Inpulse T7.


Conector para adaptador de corriente: te permite
conectar el cable de alimentación y enchufar la
controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 a una toma de
corriente usando el adaptador.


Salida de auriculares (salida 3-4): te permite conectar
auriculares para monitorizar pistas.
Formatos: conector mini-jack estéreo de 3,5 mm y
conector jack estéreo de 6,35 mm.




                           44
Extiende las cuatro patas retráctiles para elevar la
controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 y pasa los cables
por debajo.




− Pliega      las   patas   antes   de   transportar   la
  controladora DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Pliega las patas cuando no estés usando la
  controladora DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Cuando las patas estén extendidas, no presiones
  sobre la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 con
  más de 5 kg / 50 newtons de fuerza.




                            45
 4.     Instalación

Conexiones
 1. Conecta el adaptador de corriente a la controladora
   DJControl Inpulse T7.
 2. Conecta el cable de alimentación al adaptador de
   corriente y enchúfalo en una toma de corriente.
 3. Conecta el cable USB a la controladora DJControl
   Inpulse T7 y al ordenador.
 4. Pulsa   el   botón   POWER   en   la   controladora
   DJControl Inpulse T7. El botón está pulsado.
 5. Asegúrate de que los altavoces estén apagados o,
   si están conectados a un amplificador externo, de
   que el amplificador esté apagado. Conecta las
   entradas de los altavoces activos a las salidas
   Master para altavoces de la controladora DJControl
   Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA o 2 x XLR).
 6. Ajusta el volumen MASTER al nivel mínimo en la
   controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 y luego enciende
   los altavoces.
 7. Coloca los auriculares alrededor de tu cuello (y no
   en tus oídos), después conecta los auriculares al
   conector mini-jack de 3,5 mm o al conector jack de
   6,35 mm.
 8. Conecta el micrófono a la entrada de Micrófono
   (opcional).



                           46
              Fuente de alimentación
− Usa únicamente la fuente de alimentación indicada
  en el manual del usuario.
− Usa únicamente la fuente de alimentación con la
  tensión y frecuencia de red indicadas en su placa
  de características.



                         47
− Es posible usar simultáneamente ambos formatos
  de salida (XLR y RCA), por ejemplo, conectando un
  par de salidas al sistema de PA y un segundo par
  de salidas a los altavoces de monitorización.
− Una secuencia de iluminación LED, llamada Vegas
  Mode, se inicia cada vez que conectas la
  controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 al ordenador.
  Vegas Mode se lleva a cabo en cuatro fases, lo que
  le permite encender todos los LED y mostrar
  diferentes colores posibles en los pads y en los
  anillos   retroiluminados   de   los   codificadores
  BROWSER.




                         48
Descarga del software

DJUCED®

 1. Visita: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Descarga e instala DJUCED®.
 3. Visita:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (en inglés).
 4. Descarga e instala el paquete de controladores
   para el sistema operativo de tu ordenador.
              o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
              o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows® requiere que instales los controladores
    para poder usar DJControl Inpulse T7 en modo
    ASIO, lo que reduce la latencia en comparación
    con el modo WASAPI y en general es más estable.
    Los controladores también te permiten probar la
    controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 y verificar la
    versión del firmware tanto en Windows® como en
    macOS®.
 5. Inicia el software DJUCED®. Aparece una ventana
   que indica que la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7
   se ha detectado correctamente y está lista para
   usarse.




                           49
 Cuando ejecutas el software por primera vez,
 DJUCED® te guía a través de la conexión de los
 auriculares y altavoces activos (o te permite usar los
 altavoces integrados en tu ordenador, si no tienes
 altavoces activos externos). Sigue la información en
 pantalla paso a paso antes de comenzar.


Configuraciones de audio:
En DJUCED®, para modificar la configuración de la
tarjeta de sonido, haz clic en el icono de la rueda
dentada     en la parte superior derecha de la pantalla.
Se muestra el menú Configuración.
Selecciona la pestaña Audio para elegir la tarjeta de
sonido y asignar las salidas para auriculares y altavoces.


La configuración estándar para Windows® es la siguiente:
  − Audio device (Dispositivo de audio): DJControl
    Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Salida):
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                            50
La configuración estándar para macOS® es la siguiente:
  − Audio device (Dispositivo de audio): DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Salida):
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Visita: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Descarga e instala Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Visita:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (en inglés).
 4. Descarga e instala el paquete de controladores
   para el sistema operativo de tu ordenador.
              o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
              o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows® requiere que instales los controladores
    para poder usar DJControl Inpulse T7 en modo
    ASIO, lo que reduce la latencia en comparación
    con el modo WASAPI y, en general, es más
    estable.
    Los controladores también te permiten probar la
    controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 y verificar la
    versión del firmware tanto en Windows® como en
    macOS®.




                           52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 incluye una licencia de
Serato DJ Lite, pero no una licencia de Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite se puede usar sin límite de tiempo.
Si instalas Serato DJ Pro en lugar de Serato DJ Lite,
Serato DJ Pro funcionará con la DJControl Inpulse T7
durante un periodo de prueba. Al final de este periodo
de prueba, si deseas seguir usando Serato DJ Pro,
deberás comprar una licencia de Serato DJ Pro.




                          53
  5.    Animación de tu mezcla
Hay diferentes formas de animar tu mezcla.



Modos y pads

Los pads

En DJUCED®, los pads 1 a 8 realizan las acciones
correspondientes al modo activado actualmente.


En Serato DJ Lite, los pads 1 a 4 realizan las acciones
correspondientes al modo activado actualmente. Los
pads 5 a 8 realizan las siguientes acciones:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (reproducción hacia atrás)
  − Pad 6: rebobinado
  − Pad 7: avance rápido
  − Pad 8: Censor. Esta acción te permite reproducir la
    pista hacia atrás mientras se mantenga pulsado el
    pad. Una vez que se suelta el pad, la reproducción
    se reanuda desde el punto donde estaría la pista si
    hubiera seguido reproduciéndose normalmente.
    Esto se puede usar para enmascarar el lenguaje
    explícito en una canción.




                           54
Los modos activados en los pads varían según el
software que se use:


Modos DJUCED® Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**
  1      Hot Cue         Hot Cue           Hot Cue

  2      Loop Roll      Auto Loop          Auto Loop
  3       Stems           Stems             Stems
  4      Sampler         Sampler           Sampler
  5      TonePlay           –              Pitch Play
  6       PadFX             –              Loop Roll
  7     Slicer Loop    Manual Loop     Manual Loop
  8     BeatJump       Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Licencia de Serato DJ Pro no incluida.




                            55
Modo Hot Cue

Un punto Hot Cue es un marcador (como el de un libro)
que puedes colocar en una pista para localizar
fácilmente ese momento en la pista nuevamente y
regresar instantáneamente a él después.


En DJUCED®, se pueden definir ocho puntos Hot Cue
por pista.


En Serato DJ Lite, se pueden definir cuatro puntos Hot
Cue por pista.
En Serato DJ Pro, se pueden definir ocho puntos Hot
Cue por pista.


  1. Para acceder al modo Hot Cue, pulsa HOT CUE 1.
    La luz del botón HOT CUE 1 permanece encendida.
  2. Para definir un punto Hot Cue, pulsa un pad.
  3. Para reproducir la pista desde un punto Hot Cue,
    pulsa el pad correspondiente.
  4. Para eliminar un punto Hot Cue, pulsa SHIFT y el
    pad al mismo tiempo.




                           56
Modo Loop




 En DJUCED®, este modo corresponde al modo Loop
 Roll. El cabezal de reproducción del deck continúa
 avanzando en segundo plano cuando aplicas un
 bucle. Cuando desactivas el bucle, la reproducción se
 reanuda desde el punto donde estaría la pista si
 hubiera seguido reproduciéndose.
 En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, este modo
 corresponde al modo Auto Loop.


Un bucle es una parte de la pista que se reproduce
repetidamente.


  1. Para acceder al modo Loop, pulsa LOOP 2. La luz
    del botón LOOP 2 permanece encendida.


En DJUCED®:
  2. Para aplicar un bucle, mantén pulsado un pad.
  3. Para desactivar un bucle, suelta el pad.


En Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Para aplicar un bucle, pulsa un pad.
  3. Para   desactivar   un     bucle,   pulsa   el   pad.




                           57
Duración del bucle:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2       DJUCED®         Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1          1/16 de un beat       1 beat
       Pad 2           ⅛ de un beat        2 beats
       Pad 3           ¼ de un beat        4 beats
       Pad 4              ½ beat           8 beats
       Pad 5              1 beat              -
       Pad 6             2 beats              -
       Pad 7             4 beats              -
       Pad 8             8 beats              -




                          58
Modo Stems

El modo Stems te permite separar una pista en cuatro
partes diferentes (voces e instrumentos), llamadas
“stems”.


  1. Para acceder al modo Stems, pulsa STEMS 3. La
    luz del botón STEMS 3 permanece encendida.
  2. Los pads 1 a 4 están asociados cada uno con un
    stem. Para detener la reproducción de un stem,
    pulsa el pad correspondiente. La luz del pad se
    apaga.
  3. Para continuar reproduciendo el stem, pulsa el pad
    correspondiente. El pad se ilumina.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                  Stem

           Pad 1                     Voces
           Pad 2                     Melodía
           Pad 3                      Bajos
           Pad 4                    Tambores




                          59
Cuando activas los stems en una pista por primera
vez, la separación no siempre es inmediata. Esto
puede tardar un momento, mientras el software de DJ
analiza la pista y genera las diferentes partes (voces,
melodía, bajos, tambores).


Debes recordar dejar suficiente tiempo entre el
momento en que separas los stems y el momento en
que los reproduces. Una vez generadas las diferentes
partes de los stems, la reproducción de los stems es
instantánea.


Se requiere un ordenador potente para usar el modo
Stems.




                             60
Modo Sampler

Un sample es un sonido breve que se reproduce sobre
la pista que se está reproduciendo actualmente: se
puede reproducir una vez (jingle) o en repetición (bucle).


En DJUCED®, los pads 1 a 8 te permiten reproducir los
ocho samples que se encuentran en las dos primeras
líneas del sampler multicapa.
Para mostrar el sampler multicapa, selecciona 2Decks
Horizontal + 2 Samplers en el menú desplegable en la
parte superior izquierda de la pantalla en DJUCED®.


En Serato DJ Lite, los pads 1 a 4 te permiten reproducir
un sample.
Para mostrar el panel de samples, haz clic en          en
Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Para acceder al modo Sampler, pulsa SAMPLER 4.
    La    luz     del   botón        SAMPLER 4   permanece
    encendida.
  2. Para reproducir un sample, pulsa un pad.
  3. Para detener la reproducción de un sample, pulsa
    SHIFT y el pad correspondiente al mismo tiempo.




                                61
Modo 5




Serato DJ Lite no incluye el modo 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro, junto con el plugin Pitch 'n Time, ofrece
un modo Pitch Play que funciona según el mismo
principio que el modo TonePlay.


En   DJUCED®,      el   modo 5     corresponde   al   modo
TonePlay. Este modo te permite volver a reproducir un
punto Hot Cue en diferentes tonos.


  1. Activa el modo Hot Cue y luego selecciona un punto
     Hot Cue.
  2. Para acceder al modo 5, pulsa SHIFT y HOT CUE 1
     al mismo tiempo. El botón HOT CUE 1 parpadea.
  3. Para modificar el tono de un punto Hot Cue, pulsa
     uno de los pads 2 a 8.
  4. Para volver al tono original, pulsa el pad 1.




                              62
Cómo modificar el tono:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2              Tono

         Pad 1                 Tono original
         Pad 2                     +1
         Pad 3                     +2
         Pad 4                     +3
         Pad 5                      -1
         Pad 6                      -2
         Pad 7                      -3
         Pad 8                      -4




                          63
Modo 6




Serato DJ Lite no incluye el modo 6.


En DJUCED®, el modo 6 corresponde al modo PadFX.
Este modo te permite controlar los efectos en el rack de
efectos usando los pads.
Un efecto es, a veces, un filtro o una combinación de
filtros aplicados a una pista para modificar su sonido
(eco, reverberación…).


Para mostrar el rack de efectos, haz clic en       .


  1. Para acceder al modo 6, pulsa SHIFT y LOOP 2 al
    mismo tiempo. El botón LOOP 2 parpadea.
  2. Para realizar una acción, pulsa un pad.
  3. Para   desactivar     un    efecto,   pulsa       el   pad
    correspondiente (pad 1 a 3).




                            64
Posibles acciones:

Deck 1 / Deck                    Efectos

    Pad 1                    Efecto 1 del rack
    Pad 2                    Efecto 2 del rack
    Pad 3                    Efecto 3 del rack
    Pad 4            Muestra/oculta el rack de efectos
    Pad 5             Cambia el efecto 1 en el rack
    Pad 6             Cambia el efecto 2 en el rack
    Pad 7             Cambia el efecto 3 en el rack
    Pad 8                            -




                            65
Modo 7




En DJUCED®, el modo 7 corresponde al modo Slicer
Loop. En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, el modo 7
corresponde al modo Manual Loop.


En DJUCED®, el modo 7 corresponde al modo Slicer
Loop. Este modo te permite dividir el bucle activo en
ocho secciones.


  1. Para acceder al modo 7 (Slicer Loop), pulsa SHIFT
    y STEMS 3 al mismo tiempo. El botón STEMS 3
    parpadea.
  2. Para reproducir una sección como un bucle, mantén
    pulsado un pad.
  3. Para detener la reproducción de una sección, suelta
    el pad correspondiente.




                          66
En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, el modo 7
corresponde al modo Manual Loop. Este modo te
permite activar manualmente un bucle.


  1. Para acceder al modo 7 (Manual Loop), pulsa
    simultáneamente SHIFT y STEMS 3. El botón
    STEMS 3 parpadea.
  2. Para realizar una acción, pulsa un pad.


Posibles acciones:

  Deck 1/2                        Efectos

   Pad 1        Primera pulsación: define el punto de
                     entrada (IN). Segunda pulsación:
                  modifica el punto de entrada (IN).
   Pad 2        Primera pulsación: define el punto de
                  salida (OUT). Segunda pulsación:
                  modifica el punto de salida (OUT).

   Pad 3                Activa/desactiva el bucle.
   Pad 4        Mueve el cabezal de reproducción al
                  comienzo del bucle y lo reproduce
                                  (Reloop).

Codificador Aumenta/disminuye la duración del bucle.
AUTOLOOP




                             67
Modo 8




En DJUCED®, el modo 8 corresponde al modo
BeatJump. En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, el
modo 8 corresponde al modo Scratch Banks.


En   DJUCED®,      el        modo 8    corresponde    al   modo
BeatJump. Este modo te permite realizar un salto
preciso en la pista.


  1. Para acceder al modo 8 (BeatJump), pulsa SHIFT y
     SAMPLER 4          al     mismo     tiempo.     El    botón
     SAMPLER 4 parpadea.
  2. Para hacer un salto, pulsa un pad.


Duración del salto:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                         Salto

          Pad 1                        Retroceder 1 beat
          Pad 2                         Avanzar 1 beat
          Pad 3                       Retroceder 2 beats
          Pad 4                         Avanzar 2 beats
          Pad 5                       Retroceder 4 beats
          Pad 6                         Avanzar 4 beats
          Pad 7                       Retroceder 8 beats
          Pad 8                         Avanzar 8 beats
                                68
En Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro, el modo 8
corresponde al modo Scratch Banks. Este modo te
permite cargar instantáneamente un sample de scratch
en el deck para hacer scratching en el plato motorizado
en lugar de la pista que se está reproduciendo
actualmente y luego regresar rápidamente a la pista que
se está reproduciendo actualmente.
Para mostrar el panel de samples de scratch, haz clic
en    en Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Para acceder al modo 8 (Scratch Banks), pulsa
     SHIFT y SAMPLER 4 al mismo tiempo. El botón
     SAMPLER 4 parpadea.
  2. Para reproducir un sample de scratch, pulsa un
     pad.
  3. Para detener la reproducción de un sample de
     scratch y volver a la pista que se había estado
     reproduciendo anteriormente, pulsa SHIFT y el pad
     correspondiente al mismo tiempo.


Samples:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                 Sample

            Pad 1                       Ahh!
            Pad 2                    Hey You!
            Pad 3                       Oww!
            Pad 4                       Yeah!


                           69
Scratching
El scratching consiste en producir un efecto de sonido a
partir de una pista, girando el plato motorizado.


Coloca tu dedo índice en la parte superior del plato
motorizado y realiza movimientos pequeños y rápidos
hacia la derecha y hacia la izquierda.


Puedes repetir este scratch varias veces para crear un
ritmo.




 − Antes de hacer mezclas o scratching, asegúrate de
   colocar una alfombrilla de fieltro entre el plato
   motorizado y el disco de vinilo.
 − No fuerces el disco de vinilo al colocarlo sobre el
   plato motorizado, ya que te arriesgas a dañar el
   centro del disco.




                            70
Filtros
El ajuste del filtro de la pista te permite atenuar ciertas
frecuencias.


  − Atenuar las frecuencias altas (conocido como filtro
    de paso bajo o filtro de corte alto): gira la perilla de
    filtro (FILTER) hacia la izquierda.
  − Atenuar las frecuencias bajas (conocido como filtro
    de paso alto o filtro de corte bajo): gira la perilla de
    filtro (FILTER) hacia la derecha.




                            71
  6.    Tarjeta de sonido multicanal
La controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 incluye una tarjeta
de   sonido   multicanal   integrada,   que   te   permite
reproducir la mezcla en altavoces para el público (salida
Master para altavoces), hacer escucha previa de la pista
siguiente que estás preparando en los auriculares
(salida de auriculares) y usar un micrófono y/o un
dispositivo equipado con una salida de nivel de línea
como fuente de audio.




                           72
Salida Master de altavoces (salida 1-2)
Los altavoces activos deben estar conectados a una de
las dos salidas Master para altavoces situadas en la
parte posterior de la controladora de DJ.




Es posible usar simultáneamente ambos formatos de
salida, por ejemplo, conectando un par de salidas al
sistema de PA y un segundo par de salidas a los
altavoces de monitorización.




                           73
Salida de auriculares (salida 3-4)
Los auriculares deben estar conectados a una de las
dos salidas de auriculares          situadas en la parte
frontal de la controladora de DJ.




De forma predeterminada, cada vez que se conecta la
controladora de DJ, la salida de auriculares se asigna a
la salida 3-4 de modo que pueda funcionar con todo el
software de DJing disponible en el mercado, incluyendo
DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite, en particular.


Pero si quieres usar la salida de auriculares de la
controladora de DJ para escuchar música en el
ordenador con iTunes, por ejemplo, debes redirigir la
salida 1-2 a la salida de auriculares. Para hacerlo, pulsa
el botón          situado debajo del indicador visual
MASTER.

                           74
No es recomendable que conectes dos pares de
auriculares al mismo tiempo (es decir, uno al conector
de salida mini-jack de 3,5 mm y otro al conector de
salida jack de 6,35 mm). Si ambos pares de
auriculares no tienen la misma impedancia, tendrán
diferentes volúmenes de salida.




                         75
Entrada de micrófono
El micrófono debe estar conectado a la entrada de
micrófono      situada   en   la   parte   posterior   de   la
controladora de DJ. La entrada del micrófono está
equilibrada.




                              76
Puedes conectar un micrófono equilibrado o no
equilibrado. Un micrófono equilibrado produce un
sonido más nítido y potente con menos efectos de
respiración. Si tu micrófono equilibrado no está
conectado usando un cable equilibrado, el cable
reducirá la calidad de sonido del micrófono.


                    Cable equilibrado

          Tip (Punta)
         Ring (Anillo)

       Sleeve (Funda)




                  Cable no equilibrado


          Tip (Punta)


       Sleeve (Funda)




                           77
  7.     Compatibilidad

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Esta controladora de DJ es Plug & Play y puede
funcionar sin controladores con DJUCED® en cualquier
PC o Mac, ya que cumple los estándares USB Audio y
USB MIDI.



Panel de control ASIO y Windows®
Para usar la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 con
Serato DJ Lite, debes instalar los controladores ASIO.
Los controladores ASIO están disponibles aquí:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Si estás usando DJUCED®, también puedes descargar
los controladores ASIO para aprovechar la menor
latencia en el PC.


Los controladores ASIO incluyen un panel de control
accesible desde la barra de tareas del PC o en el
directorio C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\. Este panel te permite ajustar las
diferentes configuraciones de ASIO, incluidos los
tamaños del búfer y la latencia.


                           78
Para ajustar la configuración de ASIO:
  − Define el tamaño del búfer ASIO en 4 u 8 ms.
  − Inicia el software (por ejemplo: DJUCED®) y
    selecciona el controlador DJControl Inpulse T7
    ASIO (ASIO):




Una vez que el software empieza a usar el controlador
ASIO, los ajustes de ASIO ya no se pueden modificar en
el panel de control. Esto es perfectamente normal e
indica que el controlador ASIO está en uso.




                          79
Usa el software y escucha atentamente para detectar
posibles defectos o artefactos en el audio (clics,
estallidos) o cualquier problema con la latencia. Si se
producen defectos o artefactos, deberás aumentar el
tamaño del búfer para resolver los problemas.


Cierra el software y ajusta un valor cada vez del búfer
ASIO:
  − Reduce el tamaño del búfer para reducir la latencia.
  − Aumenta el tamaño del búfer si observas defectos o
    artefactos en el audio.


Tendrás que repetir este procedimiento hasta que
encuentres el tamaño de búfer óptimo del sistema.


Los controladores están disponibles aquí:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                              80
Actualización de firmware
La controladora de DJ incorpora un modo automático de
actualización del firmware. Esto requiere instalar los
controladores de Hercules y seguir las instrucciones en
pantalla. La actualización del firmware se producirá de
manera automática.


Los controladores están disponibles aquí:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


El panel de control también te permite acceder a esta
información   y   muestra        las   versiones   de   los
controladores instalados en el ordenador en la pestaña
ABOUT (ACERCA DE). Ten preparada esta información
si necesitas contactar con el servicio técnico de
Hercules.




                            81
Prueba de la controladora de DJ en el
panel de control
En la sección ABOUT (ACERCA DE) del panel de
control de la DJControl Inpulse T7, puedes probar el
sonido, los controles MIDI y la iluminación de la
controladora de DJ, junto con los platos motorizados.


Para acceder al panel de control, ve al directorio:
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\.



   1. Prueba de audio

Para probar si la interfaz de audio de la controladora
DJControl Inpulse T7 está produciendo sonido (sin usar
el software de DJ para hacerlo), haz clic en el icono del
altavoz. El ícono se vuelve verde durante la prueba y el
programa reproduce un sonido en las salidas Master de
altavoces y auriculares.




                           82
  2. Prueba de controles MIDI

Para probar si los controles MIDI de la controladora
DJControl Inpulse T7 están funcionando (sin usar el
software de DJ para hacerlo), intenta usar los botones u
otros controles que quieras probar. Si el icono del
conector DIN se vuelve verde, significa que se está
recibiendo el comando MIDI y que el botón u otro control
está funcionando correctamente.




                          83
  3. Prueba de iluminación

Para probar si los LED de la controladora DJControl
Inpulse T7 están funcionando (sin usar el software de
DJ para hacerlo), haz clic en el icono de la bombilla para
encender los LED de la controladora. El icono se vuelve
verde durante la prueba y se encienden los LED de la
controladora.




También puedes encender todos los LED de la
controladora      DJControl     Inpulse T7     pulsando
simultáneamente los botones IN y OUT en ambos
decks.




                           84
  4. Prueba de platos motorizados

Para probar si los platos motorizados de la controladora
DJControl Inpulse T7 están funcionando (sin usar el
software de DJ para hacerlo), haz clic en el icono del
plato 1 o 2. Los iconos del plato correspondiente y el
conector DIN se vuelven verdes durante la prueba y el
plato motorizado se mueve (es decir, gira) en la
controladora.


Prueba del plato motorizado número 1:




Prueba del plato motorizado número 2:




                          85
  8.    Modo de demostración
Este   modo   está   disponible   cuando   conectas     la
controladora de DJ a una fuente de alimentación y a una
fuente de alimentación USB sin un ordenador, y se usa
en tiendas, sobre todo. En este caso, la controladora de
DJ no está operativa sino que está en modo de
demostración: se repite una secuencia de demostración
que enciende las diferentes luces de la controladora.




                           86
  9.      Preguntas frecuentes

 1.       No      sale      sonido        por      los
      auriculares.
Asegúrate de haber conectado los auriculares en la
parte frontal de la controladora de DJ, ya que la
controladora de DJ está equipada con una tarjeta de
sonido multicanal preconfigurada para funcionar con
DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite.
De forma predeterminada, los dos botones de escucha
previa están activados cuando el software se ejecuta por
primera vez. Después puedes seleccionar el deck que
quieras escuchar en los auriculares o pulsar el botón
       situado debajo del indicador visual MASTER para
escuchar los resultados de la mezcla.




                          87
  2.      El sonido de los auriculares está
    distorsionado o es demasiado bajo.
Asegúrate de que los auriculares tengan un conector
TRS (auriculares estándar) y no un conector TRRS
(auriculares + micrófono).


        Tip (Punta)                  Tip (Punta)
       Ring (Anillo)                 Ring (Anillo)
                                     Ring (Anillo)
   Sleeve (Funda)
                                     Sleeve (Funda)




Los conectores TRRS no son compatibles con la
controladora DJControl Inpulse T7.




                             88
  3.      No sale sonido por los altavoces.
Asegúrate de haber conectado los auriculares a los
conectores RCA o XLR en la parte trasera de la
controladora de DJ, ya que está equipada con una
tarjeta   de   sonido   multicanal   preconfigurada   para
funcionar con DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite.


Para probar (sin usar el software de DJ) si la interfaz de
audio de la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 está
produciendo sonido, puedes visualizar el panel de
control de la controladora de DJ. Haz clic en la pestaña
ABOUT (ACERCA DE) y luego haz clic en el icono del
altavoz. El icono se vuelve verde cuando se reproduce
sonido.




                            89
 4.       No sale sonido por los altavoces
      del ordenador portátil.
La controladora de DJ está equipada con una tarjeta de
sonido multicanal preconfigurada. Si quieres usar los
altavoces integrados en el ordenador portátil:
  − En DJUCED®, accede a la configuración y marca la
      opción    SEND      MASTER       TO       COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (ENVIAR SEÑAL MAESTRA A LOS
      ALTAVOCES DEL ORDENADOR).




  − En Serato DJ Lite, accede a la configuración, abre
      la pestaña Audio y marca la opción Use Laptop
      Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil).




                            90
  5.         No      sale       sonido         por       los
       auriculares, ni por los altavoces del
       ordenador portátil.
Por defecto, el sonido proviene de la salida Master para
altavoces y de la salida de auriculares. Por lo tanto, es
normal que no salga ningún sonido por el ordenador
portátil.


Si quieres usar los altavoces integrados en el ordenador
portátil:
  − En DJUCED®, accede a la configuración y marca la
       opción     SEND      MASTER        TO    COMPUTER
       SPEAKERS (ENVIAR SEÑAL MAESTRA A LOS
       ALTAVOCES DEL ORDENADOR). Debes conectar
       los   auriculares    a   la   controladora   DJControl
       Inpulse T7.




                                91
  − En Serato DJ Lite, accede a la configuración, abre
    la pestaña Audio y marca la opción Use Laptop
    Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil). Debes
    conectar los auriculares a la controladora DJControl
    Inpulse T7.




Para probar (sin usar el software de DJ) si la interfaz de
audio de la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 está
produciendo sonido, puedes visualizar el panel de
control de la controladora de DJ. Haz clic en la pestaña
ABOUT (ACERCA DE) y luego haz clic en el icono del
altavoz. El icono se vuelve verde cuando se reproduce
sonido.




                           92
  6.       Estoy teniendo problemas de
      calidad del sonido en Windows®.

El     volumen       de    la        pista   que   se   está
reproduciendo es demasiado bajo

El volumen maestro del software de DJ es independiente de
los controles de volumen de la controladora de DJ. Por
consiguiente, mientras el volumen maestro del software de
DJ sea bajo, el volumen de la salida Master también lo será.

Comprueba el volumen del software de DJ y auméntalo
de ser necesario.

     − En DJUCED, usa el botón de volumen situado en la
       barra en la parte superior derecha de la ventana.




     − En Serato DJ Lite, usa el botón de volumen situado
       en la barra en la parte superior derecha de la
       ventana.




                                93
El volumen de los auriculares es demasiado
bajo

En Serato DJ Lite, accede a la configuración, abre la
pestaña Audio y desmarca (es decir, no selecciones)
Use Laptop Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil).




                          94
Si necesitas mantener marcado el cuadro Use Laptop
Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil) (es decir, no
seleccionado), pon la tarjeta de sonido integrada del
ordenador como "Altavoces del ordenador":
  1. Cierra el software Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Accede a la configuración de Windows y dirígete a
     System (Sistema) y después a Sound (Sonido).
  3. En Output (Salida), selecciona la tarjeta de sonido
     integrada del ordenador. La controladora de DJ
     debe dejar de estar seleccionada como la salida.




Es   posible   que   Windows®     haya    configurado   la
controladora de DJ como la tarjeta de sonido de
Windows®. Si conservas esta configuración, el ajuste
Use Laptop Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil) puede
reproducir la salida Master en la salida de 4 canales de
la controladora de DJ (salida Master + auriculares).




                           95
El sonido no es nítido

En DJUCED®:
Te recomendamos que uses un dispositivo de audio
ASIO. Con un dispositivo WASAPI, la calidad del sonido
por lo general es buena. Pero puede aumentar la
latencia y es posible que el sonido no sea nítido.


Accede a la configuración, haz clic en la pestaña Audio
y selecciona DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) como el
Audio device (Dispositivo de audio).




En Serato DJ Lite:
Accede a la configuración, abre la pestaña Audio y
desmarca (es decir, no selecciones) Use Laptop
Speakers (Usar altavoces del portátil).




                           96
  7.        No puedo conectar los altavoces
      multimedia            a      la        DJControl
      Inpulse T7.
Si los conectores de los altavoces difieren de los
conectores de la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7,
puedes usar un adaptador doble RCA a mini-jack de 3,5
mm (no incluido) para conectar altavoces multimedia, un
adaptador doble XLR a jack de 6,35 mm (no incluido)
para conectar altavoces de PA, o cualquier otro formato
de adaptador correspondiente a los altavoces.
También puedes conectar los altavoces a la salida de
auriculares y redirigir la salida 1-2 a la salida 3-4
pulsando el botón            debajo del indicador visual
MASTER.



  8.        ¿La     controladora             DJControl
      Inpulse T7 es compatible con un
      iPad o iPhone?
No,    la   controladora   DJControl    Inpulse T7   no   es
compatible con un iPad o iPhone. Sólo funciona con un
PC o un Mac.




                             97
  9.    ¿Cómo            puedo       conectar            la
    controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 a
    un puerto USB-C o a un puerto
    Thunderbolt 3?
Puedes conectar la controladora DJControl Inpulse T7 a
un puerto USB-C o a un puerto Thunderbolt 3 de tres
maneras distintas:
  − Usando     un    adaptador     (USB-C      [macho]   o
    Thunderbolt 3    a   USB-A     [hembra])     entre   el
    ordenador y la controladora de DJ. Ten en cuenta
    que algunos      adaptadores    de bajo coste no
    funcionarán correctamente, ya que cortan una parte
    del suministro de corriente.
  − Usando un dock (USB-C o Thunderbolt 3) entre el
    ordenador y la controladora de DJ. Asegúrate de
    que el dock tenga una fuente de alimentación
    dedicada, ya que un dock alimentado únicamente a
    través del puerto USB-C o Thunderbolt 3 puede no
    tener suficiente potencia.
  − Sustituyendo el cable USB incluido por un cable
    USB-C o Thunderbolt 3 a USB-B 2.0.




                           98
    SOPORTE TÉCNICO
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Marcas comerciales
Intel® e Intel Core™ son marcas comerciales o marcas comerciales
registradas de Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 es una marca comercial registrada o una
marca comercial de Microsoft Corporation en Estados Unidos y/o en
otros países.
Mac® y macOS® son marcas comerciales de Apple Inc., registradas en
EE. UU. y en otros países.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite y Serato DJ Pro son marcas comerciales
registradas de Serato Audio Research Limited.
La marca DJUCED® y los elementos gráficos de DJUCED® son
propiedad de Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO es una marca comercial de Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Todas las demás marcas comerciales y nombres comerciales se
reconocen por la presente en este documento y son propiedad de sus
respectivos dueños. Ilustraciones no vinculantes. Los contenidos, los
diseños y las especificaciones de este documento están sujetos a
cambios sin previo aviso y pueden variar de un país a otro.




                                    100
Copyright
Ninguna parte de este manual se puede reproducir, resumir, transmitir,
transcribir, almacenar en un sistema de recuperación, ni traducir a
cualquier idioma o lenguaje de ordenador, en cualquier forma ni por
cualquier medio, electrónico, mecánico, magnético, manual, mediante
fotocopias, grabaciones u otros, sin el permiso previo por escrito de
Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                 101
Acuerdo de licencia de usuario final
de DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite
Lee detenidamente el Acuerdo de licencia mostrado durante la
instalación de DJUCED® y Serato DJ Lite.




                                 102
Manual do Utilizador
                             ÍNDICE


1.   CONTEÚDO DA EMBALAGEM .................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   ESPECIFICAÇÕES TÉCNICAS .................. 10

3.   CARACTERÍSTICAS ................................... 13

     Vista geral ........................................................13

     Decks................................................................14

     Misturar ............................................................32

     Conectores ......................................................43

4.   INSTALAÇÃO .............................................. 46

     Ligações ..........................................................46

     Transferir o software .....................................49

5.   ANIMAR A SUA MISTURA ......................... 54

     Modos e pads..................................................54

     Scratching .......................................................70

     Filtros ...............................................................71
6.   PLACA DE SOM MULTICANAL ................. 72

     Saída Master para altifalantes (saídas 1-2) 73

     Saída de auscultadores (saídas 3-4) ...........74

     Entrada de microfone ....................................76

7.   COMPATIBILIDADE .................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     Painel de controlo ASIO e Windows® .........78

     Atualização do firmware................................81

     Testar o controlador de DJing no painel de

     controlo ............................................................82

8.   MODO DEMO............................................... 86

9.   PERGUNTAS FREQUENTES ..................... 87
O Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 é um controlador
ultracompleto concebido para o(a) ajudar a dominar a
arte dos gira-discos de vinil graças aos dois pratos
motorizados, aos tutoriais em vídeo e à integração do
software DJUCED e Serato DJ Lite.




O Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 inclui uma licença
para o Serato DJ Lite, não uma licença para o Serato
DJ Pro.
O Serato DJ Lite pode ser utilizado sem qualquer
limite de tempo.
Se instalar o Serato DJ Pro em vez do Serato DJ Lite,
o Serato DJ Pro funcionará com o seu DJControl
Inpulse T7 durante um período de avaliação. No fim
deste período de avaliação, se continuar a utilizar o
Serato DJ Pro, terá de adquirir uma licença do Serato
DJ Pro.

                         4
Está disponível uma grande variedade de tutoriais em
vídeo para o(a) ajudar a aprender a misturar com o
controlador Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (em inglês):
       o No DJUCED, clicando no ícone       .
       o No sítio Web do DJUCED.
  − Canal de Hercules Audio no YouTube (em
    inglês).
  − The DJ Coach, com cursos dados pelo DJ HAPA
    no Serato DJ Lite (em inglês).




                          5
 1.    Conteúdo da embalagem

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Dois discos de vinil (17,8 cm / 7 polegadas)
 − Dois discos de feltro
 − Cabo USB entrançado
 − Cabo de alimentação amovível
 − Transformador
 − Manual de instruções
 − Folheto da garantia




                           6
Pode remover as películas de proteção que cobrem
os medidores de VU no controlador Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7. Também pode manter as
películas de proteção colocadas, uma vez que não
afetam a utilização dos medidores de VU.




                         7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Dois discos de vinil (17,8 cm / 7 polegadas)
 − Dois discos de feltro
 − Dois discos de feltro finos
 − Cabo USB entrançado
 − Cabo de alimentação amovível
 − Transformador
 − Mala de transporte
 − Manual de instruções
 − Folheto da garantia




Pode remover as películas de proteção que cobrem
os medidores de VU no controlador Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition. Também pode
manter as películas de proteção colocadas, uma vez
que não afetam a utilização dos medidores de VU.




                           9
  2.     Especificações técnicas
Requisitos do sistema:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/          (em
    inglês)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (em inglês)

Saídas de áudio:
           o Resolução = 24 bits
           o Taxa de amostragem = 44,1 kHz

Saídas Master para altifalantes (saídas 1-2) via:
  − Dois conectores RCA:
           o Potência de saída máxima = 7 dBU @
              1 kΩ
  − Dois conectores XLR (equilibrados):
           o Potência de saída máxima = 13 dBU @
              1 kΩ

Saída de auscultadores (saídas 3-4) através de um
conector minijaque estéreo de 3,5 mm / 1/8” e um
conector jaque estéreo de 6,35 mm / ¼”:
           o Potência de saída máxima = 5 dBU para
              32 Ω @ 1 kHz

Entrada de microfone através de um conector jaque de
6,35 mm / ¼” (equilibrado)
                             10
               Fonte de alimentação
− Utilize apenas a fonte de alimentação indicada no
  manual do utilizador.
− Utilize apenas a fonte de alimentação com a tensão
  e a frequência de rede indicadas na placa sinalética
  da fonte de alimentação.




                          11
  Informações relativas à fonte de alimentação
  Informações                  Valor         Unidade
   publicadas
 Nome ou marca          GUILLEMOT
  comercial do       CORPORATION S.A.
   fabricante       414 196 758 RCS Vannes
   Número do        2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
Registo Comercial
                        56910 Carentoir
     Morada
                              França
 Identificador do       A481-1852590D
     modelo
Tensão de entrada             100-240          V
Frequência da CA               50-60           Hz
   de entrada
Tensão de saída                18,5           V CC
Corrente de saída               2,6            A
Potência de saída              47,9            W
 Eficiência ativa              87,8            %
      média
  Eficiência com               87,8            %
carga baixa (10%)
  Consumo de                   0,10            W
energia sem carga




                         12
 3.     Características

Vista geral




 1. Prato motorizado
 2. Botões de transporte (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Controlos dos loops (Loop)
 4. Controlos de seleção de faixas (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Fader de andamento (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads e modos
 7. Modos de reprodução
 8. Monitorização, volume (Master, auscultadores e
      microfone) e Beatmatch Guide
 9. Secção de mistura (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Misturador (crossfader, faders de volume)
 11. Efeitos




                         13
Decks

  1. Prato motorizado




Disco de feltro: colocado entre o prato motorizado e o
disco de vinil. Impede a fricção do disco de vinil contra o
prato e reduz as vibrações ao reproduzir o disco.




 Deve colocar sempre o disco de feltro sobre o prato
 motorizado antes de instalar o disco de vinil.




                            14
Disco de vinil: permite-lhe fazer scratch, acelerar ou
abrandar a reprodução e navegar na faixa.
A linha na etiqueta do disco de vinil é um ponto de
referência (ou seja, um marcador) para misturar e fazer
scratch.


A ação realizada depende de dois critérios:
  − Faixa em reprodução ou em pausa;
  − A posição onde está a tocar no disco de vinil (parte
    superior (top) ou anel (ring)).


                            Top




      Ring




                            15
Ações dos discos de vinil com o Serato DJ Lite e Serato
DJ Pro:


                          Prato
 Reprodução/Pausa                       Botão SHIFT
                        motorizado
     Reprodução        Parte superior           -
                       Scratching
                           Parte            Premir
     Reprodução
                        superior/Anel   continuamente
              Mover-se rapidamente na faixa
     Reprodução          Ring (Anel)            -
            Acelerar ou abrandar a reprodução
                           Parte
          Pausa                                 -
                        superior/Anel
              Mover-se lentamente na faixa
                           Parte            Premir
          Pausa
                        superior/Anel   continuamente
              Mover-se rapidamente na faixa




                          16
Ações dos discos de vinil com o DJUCED:


                         Prato
 Reprodução/Pausa                      Botão SHIFT
                       motorizado
    Reprodução        Parte superior          -
                     Scratching
                         Parte             Premir
    Reprodução
                      superior/Anel    continuamente
            Mover-se rapidamente na faixa
    Reprodução         Ring (Anel)            -
          Acelerar ou abrandar a reprodução
       Pausa           Ring (Anel)            -
             Mover-se lentamente na faixa




                         17
Prato motorizado: aciona o disco de vinil que controla
a reprodução da faixa e a velocidade da faixa de acordo
com o andamento definido com o fader de andamento.


Quando a função Beatmatch Guide está ativada, os
guias visuais BEAT ALIGN indicam a direção em que
deve rodar o anel (ou seja, o bordo) do prato motorizado
de modo a alinhar as grelhas de batidas das duas
faixas. Quando as duas setas vermelhas não estão
acesas, as grelhas de batidas encontram-se alinhadas.


Para mais informações sobre a função Beatmatch
Guide, consulte a secção Beatmatch Guide.




Não é possível desativar a motorização dos pratos.




 − Quando o prato motorizado estiver a girar, evite
   mantê-lo parado com a mão durante um longo
   período de tempo, para não danificar o sistema de
   transmissão.
 − Ao colocar o disco de vinil no prato motorizado, não
   o force. Corre o risco de danificar o centro do disco
   de vinil.

                          18
  2. Botões de transporte




SHIFT: controlo combinado. Por exemplo:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): bloqueia a nota
    musical da faixa.
  − SHIFT + IN: no DJUCED®, divide o tamanho do
    loop ativo em dois.


SYNC: ativa ou desativa a sincronização automática dos
valores BPM (batidas por minuto) de duas faixas.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o No DJUCED: define o deck como deck de
        sincronização principal (Master Sync).
      o No Serato DJ Lite: desativa a sincronização no
        deck.




                          19
CUE: insere um ponto Cue na faixa para identificar um
instante específico, ou move a cabeça de reprodução do
deck para a posição do ponto Cue.
  − Faixa em pausa: insere um ponto Cue na posição
    onde a faixa está parada.
  − Faixa em reprodução: para a reprodução da faixa e
    move a cabeça de reprodução do deck para o
    ponto Cue.
      o No DJUCED, se nenhum ponto Cue tiver sido
         definido, premir CUE para a reprodução e
         coloca um ponto Cue na posição da cabeça de
         reprodução.
      o No Serato DJ Lite, se nenhum ponto Cue tiver
         sido definido, premir CUE para a reprodução e
         coloca um ponto Cue no início da faixa.
  − CUE + PLAY: move a cabeça de reprodução para o
    ponto Cue e reproduz a faixa a partir desse ponto.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o No DJUCED: move a cabeça de reprodução
         para o início da faixa e para a reprodução.
      o No Serato DJ Lite: move a cabeça de
         reprodução para o início da faixa e inicia a
         reprodução.

Reprodução/Pausa: reproduz a faixa ou coloca-a em
pausa.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: no Serato DJ Lite, move a cabeça
    de reprodução para o ponto Cue e reproduz a faixa
    a partir deste marcador.
                           20
  3. Controlos dos loops




Codificador AUTOLOOP:
  − Premir o codificador: ativa ou desativa a reprodução
    do loop.
  − Rodar o codificador ajusta a duração do loop.


IN/OUT: ativa um loop selecionando o ponto inicial (IN)
e o ponto final (OUT).
Quando o loop está ativo (ou seja, ativado):
  − Prima IN (o botão começa a piscar) e rode o prato
    motorizado para mover o início do loop.
  − Prima OUT (o botão começa a piscar) e rode o
    prato motorizado para mover o fim do loop.
Para sair do loop, prima o codificador AUTOLOOP.
No DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: divide o tamanho do loop ativo em
    dois.
  − SHIFT + OUT: multiplica o tamanho do loop ativo
    por dois.
  − Pressão longa em IN: ativa um loop de quatro
    batidas.

                           21
  4. Controlos de seleção de faixas




Codificador BROWSER*: permite-lhe navegar na sua
biblioteca e na lista de faixas rodando o codificador para
a esquerda (para cima) ou para a direita (para baixo).
Prima o codificador para selecionar pastas e carregar a
faixa selecionada no deck de destino.


Anel iluminado:
  − No DJUCED, mostra o nível de energia da faixa
    principal para o andamento.
  − No Serato DJ Lite, mostra o ritmo. A luz pisca de
    acordo com a batida da faixa:
           o Vermelho: indica a primeira batida.
           o Azul: indica as três batidas seguintes.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − No DJUCED, apresenta o painel que sugere as
    melhores faixas seguintes para a sua mistura.
    Para percorrer a lista de faixas sugeridas, rode o
    codificador BROWSER.
    Para selecionar uma faixa, prima o codificador
    BROWSER. A faixa já carregada neste deck deve
    ser colocada em pausa.
    Prima ASSIST./PREP. e rode o codificador para
    ajustar o nível de energia das faixas que são
    sugeridas.
  − No Serato DJ Lite, adiciona a faixa atualmente em
    reprodução à lista Prepare (Preparar).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: abre o painel Prepare
    (Preparar).


BACK*: permite-lhe navegar na estrutura em árvore no
DJUCED e Serato DJ Lite.
  − No DJUCED, prima SHIFT e BACK para voltar à
    coluna Library (Biblioteca).




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.
                            23
  5. Fader de andamento




Fader   de   andamento:     define   a   velocidade   de
reprodução da faixa ajustando o número de BPM.
  − Mover para cima: abranda a faixa.
  − Mover para baixo: acelera a faixa.
  − Fader de andamento ao centro: velocidade original
    da faixa. O LED branco está aceso.


Quando a função Beatmatch Guide está ativada, os
guias visuais TEMPO indicam se necessita de mover o
fader de andamento para cima ou para baixo, a fim de
abrandar ou acelerar a faixa. Quando as duas setas
vermelhas estão apagadas, o andamento nesse deck é
idêntico ao andamento no outro deck.


Para mais informações sobre a função Beatmatch
Guide, consulte a secção Beatmatch Guide.



                          24
No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, quando o modo
SYNC está ativado, premir SHIFT e mover o fader de
andamento em simultâneo permite-lhe mover os valores
do fader de andamento ao mesmo tempo que mantém a
amplitude.


Por exemplo, com uma escala de andamento de ±8%,
ou 16% de amplitude, pode mover os valores do fader
de andamento para cobrir de 0% (máximo) a -16%
(mínimo), o que continua a resultar em 16% de
amplitude, com -8% no centro.




                         25
RANGE*: permite-lhe alterar a escala de tempo dos
faders de andamento.
  − No DJUCED: ±6%, ±8%, ±10%, ±12%, ±16%,
    ±20%, ±25%, ±33%, ±50%.
  − No Serato DJ Lite: ±8%, ±16%, ±50%.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): bloqueia a nota musical
da faixa.
Para garantir que a nota musical é bloqueada, prima
SHIFT. O botão RANGE está iluminado.




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.
                           26
  6. Pads e modos




Botões de modos: permitem-lhe ativar até oito modos.
Para ativar um modo principal, prima HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 ou SAMPLER 4.
Para ativar um modo secundário (MODE 5, MODE 6,
MODE 7 e MODE 8), prima simultaneamente SHIFT e
HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 ou SAMPLER 4. O
botão do modo começa a piscar.
Os modos ativados nos pads variam de acordo com o
software utilizado.


Para mais informações sobre os diferentes modos com
o DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, leia a
secção Modos e pads.


Pads de desempenho: um pad executa uma ação.




                         27
  7. Modos de reprodução




INSTRUMENTAL: permite-lhe reproduzir apenas as
partes "Melodia", "Graves" e "Percussão" de uma faixa.
Isto é um atalho para o modo Stems.
  − Para reproduzir     apenas    as   partes   "Melodia",
    "Graves" e "Percussão" de uma faixa, prima o botão
    INSTRUMENTAL. O botão ilumina-se.
  − Para retomar a reprodução de todas as partes de
    uma    faixa    ("Vozes",   "Melodia",   "Graves"   e
    "Percussão"),     prima     novamente       o   botão
    INSTRUMENTAL. A luz do botão apaga-se.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: ativa o modo Slip. No modo
Slip, a cabeça de reprodução do deck continua a
avançar em segundo plano quando aplica um efeito ou
um loop, insere um ponto Cue ou utiliza os pratos
motorizados. Quando para de aplicar um efeito, a
reprodução é retomada a partir do ponto onde a faixa
estaria se tivesse continuado a ser reproduzida.
Para garantir que o modo Slip está ativado, prima
SHIFT. O botão INSTRUMENTAL está iluminado.




O Serato DJ Lite não inclui o modo Slip.
O Serato DJ Pro inclui o modo Slip.




                           29
VOCAL: permite-lhe reproduzir apenas a parte "Vozes"
de uma faixa. Isto é um atalho para o modo Stems.
  − Para reproduzir apenas a parte "Vozes" de uma
    faixa, prima o botão VOCAL. O botão ilumina-se.
  − Para retomar a reprodução de todas as partes de
    uma     faixa   ("Vozes",   "Melodia",   "Graves"   e
    "Percussão"), prima novamente o botão VOCAL. A
    luz do botão apaga-se.


SHIFT + VOCAL: ativa o modo Quantize. A quantização
permite-lhe aplicar uma ação na batida seguinte na
grelha (reproduzir a faixa, colocar um ponto Cue, iniciar
um loop, etc.).
Para garantir que o modo Quantize está ativado, prima
SHIFT. O botão VOCAL está iluminado.




O Serato DJ Lite não inclui o modo Quantize.
O Serato DJ Pro inclui o modo Quantize.




                           30
        (pitch bend -) /       (pitch bend +): permite-lhe
alinhar manualmente a grelha de batidas da faixa em
reprodução neste deck com a grelha de batidas do outro
deck.
  − Prima      continuamente             para    abrandar
    momentaneamente o deck.
  − Prima      continuamente              para    acelerar
    momentaneamente o deck.




No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +            e
SHIFT +          permite-lhe ajustar as definições em
determinados modos ("Definições").




                           31
Misturar

  8. Monitorização, volume e Beatmatch Guide




Volume MIC: ajusta o volume do microfone.


Anel MIC iluminado: indica o nível do sinal de áudio
(medidor de VU).
  − Apagado: não há sinal de áudio.
  − Verde: o sinal de áudio está em reprodução.
  − Vermelho: o sinal de áudio está saturado.


Volume MASTER: ajusta o volume da mistura em
reprodução nos altifalantes.


Medidor de VU MASTER: apresenta o nível do sinal de
áudio da saída Master (RCA ou XLR) para altifalantes.


                           32
Volume HEADPHONES:
 −         /       : ajusta o sinal de áudio em reprodução
     nos       auscultadores,   misturando   a   saída   Cue
     (monitorização dos decks 1 e 2) e a saída Mix
     (saída Master).
       o Para ouvir apenas a monitorização, prima os
           botões de monitorização dos decks 1 e 2. Os
           botões iluminam-se. Em seguida, regule o
           botão para Cue.
       o Para ouvir apenas a saída Master, prima o
           botão de monitorização Master. O botão
           ilumina-se. Em seguida, regule o botão para
           Mix para ajustar a mistura em reprodução nos
           auscultadores.
 −             : ajusta o volume da saída de auscultadores.




                                33
Monitorização: seleciona a fonte de som reproduzida
nos auscultadores.
  −         (situado por baixo do medidor de VU
      MASTER):    reproduz   o   som   da    mistura   em
      reprodução alto e bom som para o público.
  −       * (situado de ambos os lados do botão
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): reproduz o som do deck 1
      ou do deck 2 quando botão Cue/Mix está regulado
      para Cue.
No Serato DJ Lite, prima SHIFT e            * (ao lado do
botão BEATMATCH GUIDE) para alterar a grelha de
batidas da faixa em reprodução neste deck. Para sair do
modo de edição da grelha de batidas, clique em Edit
Grid (Editar grelha).




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: ativa ou desativa os guias de
luzes para ajustar o andamento e alinhar as grelhas de
batidas   das   duas   faixas.   Existem   quatro   setas
vermelhas por deck.




O DJUCED® define um dos decks como deck de
sincronização principal (Master Sync) e o outro como
deck subordinado. As setas vermelhas iluminam-se
apenas no deck subordinado, uma vez que este deck
segue o andamento do deck de sincronização
principal.
O Serato DJ Lite não define um deck de sincronização
principal. As setas vermelhas iluminam-se em ambos
os decks.




                           35
− Guias visuais TEMPO: se uma das duas setas
 vermelhas situadas à direita de um fader de
 andamento estiver iluminada, isto significa que o
 andamento (ou seja, o número de batidas por
 minuto) da faixa em reprodução neste deck é
 diferente do andamento do outro deck.
 As setas indicam a direção em que deve mover o
 fader   de andamento de         modo   a ajustar   o
 andamento da faixa em reprodução para coincidir
 com o andamento no outro deck.
         o Seta superior iluminada: mova o fader de
           andamento para cima. Isto irá abrandar o
           andamento.
         o Seta inferior iluminada: mova o fader de
           andamento para baixo. Isto irá acelerar o
           andamento.
         o Setas não iluminadas: o andamento do
           deck é idêntico ao andamento do deck de
           sincronização principal.




                        36
− Guias visuais BEAT ALIGN: se uma das duas setas
  vermelhas   situadas      por   baixo   de     um   prato
  motorizado estiver iluminada, isto significa que as
  batidas da faixa em reprodução neste deck não
  estão alinhadas com as batidas do outro deck.
  As setas indicam a direção em que deve rodar o
  prato motorizado de modo a alinhar as batidas da
  faixa em reprodução com as batidas do outro deck.
        o Seta esquerda iluminada: rode o prato
          motorizado no sentido dos ponteiros do
          relógio. Isto irá acelerar a velocidade de
          reprodução.
        o Seta    direita    iluminada:   rode    o   prato
          motorizado no sentido contrário ao dos
          ponteiros do relógio. Isto irá abrandar a
          velocidade de reprodução.
        o Setas não iluminadas: as batidas do deck
          estão alinhadas com as batidas do outro
          deck.




                            37
  9. Secção de mistura




Botão GAIN*: ajusta o ganho (ou seja, o nível do
volume antes do fader de volume).


Equalizador de 3 bandas (EQ)*: controla a intensidade
do EQ. Há um botão associado a cada banda: HIGH,
MID e LOW.


Botão FILTER*: ajusta a frequência do filtro duplo
(passa-alto e passa-baixo).




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.
                            38
  10.   Misturador




Medidor de VU: apresenta o nível do sinal de áudio dos
decks 1 e 2.


Fader de volume*: ajusta o volume do deck.


Crossfader: permite-lhe fazer uma transição entre duas
faixas aumentando o volume de um dos decks e ao
mesmo tempo diminuindo o volume do outro deck.
  − Crossfader completamente para a esquerda: ouve
    apenas a faixa no deck 1.
  − Crossfader completamente para a direita: ouve
    apenas a faixa no deck 2.
  − Crossfader ao centro: ouve as faixas em ambos os
    decks 1 e 2 simultaneamente.
                         39
Mudança da curva: permite-lhe alterar a curva do
crossfader.
  −       (mix): mistura progressiva dos dois decks.
  −       (scratch): mistura muito rápida dos dois decks.
  −        (desativado):   crossfader   desativado,    para
      misturar utilizando apenas os faders de volume.




No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, pode alterar as
definições     do    crossfader.    Selecione    Settings
(Definições) e em seguida Mixer (Misturador):
 − Power (Potência): curva rápida para fazer scratch.
 − Linear (Linear): curva progressiva para misturar.
 − Reverse (Inverso): inverte a direção do crossfader,
   também conhecido como modo “Hamster”.




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.

                            40
  11.     Efeitos




Para visualizar o painel de efeitos:
  − No DJUCED: clique em                .
  − No Serato DJ Lite: clique em                .


Botões de efeitos         /       /    *: permitem-lhe selecionar
um efeito do painel de efeitos. O botão ilumina-se.
Para ativar um efeito, utilize a alavanca de desempenho.
Para alterar os efeitos associados aos botões               /   /
, selecione um novo efeito no painel de efeitos. No
Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, também pode premir
SHIFT e     ,   ou     para visualizar a lista de efeitos e,
em seguida, premir SHIFT e                ,         ou    novamente
para percorrer a lista e selecionar o novo efeito.




No Serato DJ Lite:
− É     possível     combinar                 múltiplos    efeitos
  simultaneamente.
− Os três efeitos     /       /        à esquerda aplicam-se
  ao deck da esquerda (deck 1), enquanto os três
                                  41
  efeitos    /    /    à direita aplicam-se ao deck da
  direita (deck 2).
No Serato DJ Pro, os dois grupos de botões de três
efeitos aplicam-se aos dois decks virtuais.


Alavanca de desempenho*: permite-lhe ativar um
efeito carregado nos botões      ,   ou       . Existem três
posições diferentes:
  − HOLD: ativa continuamente o efeito enquanto a
    alavanca estiver esta posição.
  − ON: ativa momentaneamente o efeito enquanto a
    alavanca estiver esta posição.
  − Posição central: efeito desativado.


Botão DEPTH: ajusta a intensidade do efeito.


  Botões /       : ajustam a duração do ciclo do efeito
sincronizado com a música.




O DJUCED não inclui esta funcionalidade.




* A funcionalidade é idêntica nos decks 1 e 2.

                            42
Conectores




  12.     Saída Master para altifalantes (saídas 1-2)
  13.     Entrada de microfone equilibrada
  14.     Porta USB-B 2.0
  15.     Botão POWER
  16.     Conector para transformador
  17.     Saída de auscultadores (saídas 3-4)


Saída Master para altifalantes (saídas 1-2): permite-
lhe ligar altifalantes ativos.
Formatos: 2 x RCA não equilibradas (Cinch) e 2 x XLR
equilibradas.


Entrada de microfone equilibrada: permite-lhe ligar
um microfone equilibrado ou não equilibrado.
Formato: jaque de 6,35 mm / ¼”.




                                 43
Porta USB-B 2.0: permite-lhe ligar o controlador a um
computador.


Botão   POWER:      permite-lhe     ligar   e   desligar   o
controlador DJControl Inpulse T7.


Conector para transformador: permite-lhe ligar o cabo
de alimentação e o controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 a
uma tomada elétrica utilizando o transformador.


Saída de auscultadores (saídas 3-4): permite-lhe ligar
auscultadores para monitorizar faixas.
Formatos: conector minijaque estéreo de 3,5 mm / 1/8”
+ conector jaque estéreo de 6,35 mm / ¼”.




                           44
Estenda os quatro pés retrácteis para elevar o
controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 e passar os cabos
por baixo do mesmo.




− Recolha os pés antes de transportar o controlador
  DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Recolha os pés quando não estiver a utilizar o
  controlador DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Quando os pés estiverem estendidos, não faça
  pressão no controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 com
  mais de 5 kg / 11 lb / 50 newtons de força.




                           45
 4.       Instalação

Ligações
 1. Ligue o transformador ao controlador DJControl
   Inpulse T7.
 2. Ligue o cabo de alimentação ao transformador e
   ligue este a uma tomada elétrica.
 3. Ligue o cabo USB ao controlador DJControl
   Inpulse T7 e ao computador.
 4. Prima o botão POWER no controlador DJControl
   Inpulse T7. O botão é pressionado para dentro.
 5. Certifique-se de que os altifalantes estão desligados
   ou, se estiverem ligados a um amplificador externo,
   de que o amplificador está desligado. Ligue as
   entradas dos altifalantes ativos às saídas Master
   para     altifalantes    do       controlador   DJControl
   Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA ou 2 x XLR).
 6. Ajuste o volume MASTER para o nível mínimo no
   controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 e em seguida
   ligue os altifalantes.
 7. Coloque os auscultadores à volta do pescoço (e
   não sobre os ouvidos) e em seguida ligue os
   auscultadores ao conector minijaque de 3,5 mm /
   1/8” ou ao conector jaque de 6,35 mm / ¼”.
 8. Ligue   o    microfone       à   entrada   "Microphone"
   (opcional).



                             46
               Fonte de alimentação
− Utilize apenas a fonte de alimentação indicada no
  manual do utilizador.
− Utilize apenas a fonte de alimentação com a tensão
  e a frequência de rede indicadas na placa sinalética
  da fonte de alimentação.



                          47
− É possível utilizar simultaneamente ambos os
 formatos de saída (XLR e RCA) – por exemplo,
 ligando um par de saída ao sistema PA e um
 segundo    par   de   saída   a   altifalantes   de
 monitorização.
− Uma sequência de iluminação LED, chamada
 Vegas Mode, é iniciada cada vez que liga o
 controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 ao computador. A
 sequência Vegas Mode tem lugar em quatro fases,
 permitindo-lhe acender todas as luzes LED e
 apresentar as diferentes cores possíveis nos pads
 e nos anéis retroiluminados dos codificadores
 BROWSER.




                        48
Transferir o software

DJUCED

 1. Visite: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Transfira e instale o DJUCED®.
 3. Visite:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (em inglês).
 4. Transfira e instale o pacote de controladores para o
   sistema operativo do seu computador.
              o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
              o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    O Windows® requer que instale os controladores a
    fim de utilizar o DJControl Inpulse T7 no modo
    ASIO, o qual reduz a latência em comparação com
    o modo WASAPI e é geralmente mais estável.
    Os controladores também lhe permitem testar o
    controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 e verificar a
    versão do firmware no Windows® e no macOS®.
 5. Inicie o software DJUCED. É apresentada uma
   janela, indicando que o seu controlador DJControl
   Inpulse T7 foi detetado com êxito e está pronto a
   utilizar.




                           49
 Quando executa o software pela primeira vez, o
 DJUCED®        guia-o(a)   através   das   ligações   dos
 auscultadores e altifalantes ativos (ou permite-lhe
 utilizar os altifalantes integrados no computador, se
 não possuir altifalantes ativos externos). Siga as
 informações passo a passo apresentadas no ecrã
 antes de começar.

Definições de áudio:
No DJUCED®, para alterar as definições da placa de
som, clique no ícone da roda dentada            na metade
superior direita do ecrã. É apresentado o menu Settings
(Definições).
Selecione o separador Audio (Áudio) para escolher a
placa de som e atribuir as saídas para auscultadores e
altifalantes.

A configuração padrão para o Windows® é a seguinte:
  − Dispositivo de áudio: DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
     (ASIO)
  − Output (Saída):
            o Master: saídas 1 e 2
            o Headphones (Auscultadores): saídas 3 e 4




                             50
A configuração padrão para o macOS® é a seguinte:
  − Dispositivo de áudio: DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Saída):
          o Master: saídas 1 e 2
          o Headphones (Auscultadores): saídas 3 e 4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Visite: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Transfira e instale o Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Visite:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (em inglês).
 4. Transfira e instale o pacote de controladores para o
   sistema operativo do seu computador.
              o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
              o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    O Windows® requer que instale os controladores a
    fim de utilizar o DJControl Inpulse T7 no modo
    ASIO, o qual reduz a latência em comparação com
    o modo WASAPI e é geralmente mais estável.
    Os controladores também lhe permitem testar o
    controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 e verificar a
    versão do firmware no Windows® e no macOS®.




                           52
O Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 inclui uma licença
para o Serato DJ Lite, não uma licença para o Serato
DJ Pro.
O Serato DJ Lite pode ser utilizado sem qualquer
limite de tempo.
Se instalar o Serato DJ Pro em vez do Serato DJ Lite,
o Serato DJ Pro funcionará com o seu DJControl
Inpulse T7 durante um período de avaliação. No fim
deste período de avaliação, se continuar a utilizar o
Serato DJ Pro, terá de adquirir uma licença do Serato
DJ Pro.




                         53
  5.    Animar a sua mistura
Existem diferentes formas de animar a sua mistura.



Modos e pads

Pads

No DJUCED, os pads 1 a 8 executam as ações
correspondentes ao modo atualmente ativado.


No Serato DJ Lite, os pads 1 a 4 executam as ações
correspondentes ao modo atualmente ativado. Os pads
5 a 8 executam as seguintes ações:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (reprodução inversa)
  − Pad 6: recuar
  − Pad 7: avançar rapidamente
  − Pad 8: Censor. Esta ação permite-lhe reproduzir a
    faixa   no   sentido    inverso    enquanto    premir
    continuamente o pad. Assim que solta o pad, a
    reprodução é retomada a partir do ponto onde a
    faixa   estaria   se   tivesse    continuado   a   ser
    reproduzida normalmente. Isto pode ser utilizado
    para disfarçar linguagem explícita numa música.




                           54
Os modos ativados nos pads variam de acordo com o
software utilizado:


Modos DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1      Hot Cue        Hot Cue            Hot Cue

   2      Loop Roll     Auto Loop       Auto Loop
   3       Stems          Stems             Stems
   4      Sampler        Sampler            Sampler
   5      TonePlay          –            Pitch Play
   6       PadFX            –            Loop Roll
   7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
   8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
** Licença do Serato DJ Pro não incluída.




                           55
Modo Hot Cue

Um ponto Hot Cue é um marcador (como num livro) que
pode colocar numa faixa para voltar a localizar
facilmente   este   momento      na   faixa   e   regressar
instantaneamente ao mesmo posteriormente.


O DJUCED permite definir oito pontos Hot Cue por
faixa.


O Serato DJ Lite permite definir quatro pontos Hot Cue
por faixa.
O Serato DJ Pro permite definir oito pontos Hot Cue por
faixa.


  1. Para aceder ao modo Hot Cue, prima HOT CUE 1.
     A luz do botão HOT CUE 1 permanece acesa.
  2. Para definir um ponto Hot Cue, prima um pad.
  3. Para reproduzir a faixa a partir de um ponto Hot
     Cue, prima o pad correspondente.
  4. Para remover um ponto Hot Cue, prima SHIFT e o
     pad simultaneamente.




                            56
Modo Loop




No DJUCED, este modo corresponde ao modo Loop
Roll. A cabeça de reprodução do deck continua a
avançar em segundo plano quando aplica um loop.
Quando desativa o loop, a reprodução é retomada a
partir do ponto onde a faixa estaria se tivesse
continuado a ser reproduzida.
No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, este modo
corresponde ao modo Auto Loop.


Um loop é uma parte da faixa que é reproduzida
repetidamente.

  1. Para aceder ao modo Loop, prima LOOP 2. A luz
    do botão LOOP 2 permanece acesa.

No DJUCED:
  2. Para aplicar um loop, prima continuamente um pad.
  3. Para   desativar   um      loop,   solte   o   pad
    correspondente.

No Serato DJ Lite:
  1. Para aplicar um loop, prima um pad.
  2. Para   desativar   um      loop,   prima   o   pad
    correspondente.

                          57
Duração do loop:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2   DJUCED       Serato DJ Lite

      Pad 1         1/16 de uma      1 batida
      Pad 2          ⅛ de uma       2 batidas
      Pad 3          ¼ de uma       4 batidas
      Pad 4          ½ de uma       8 batidas
      Pad 5          1 batida           -
      Pad 6          2 batidas          -
      Pad 7          4 batidas          -
      Pad 8          8 batidas          -




                      58
Modo Stems

O modo Stems permite-lhe separar uma faixa em quatro
partes diferentes (vozes e instrumentos), chamadas
“stems”.


  1. Para aceder ao modo Stems, prima STEMS 3. A luz
    do botão STEMS 3 permanece acesa.
  2. Cada um dos pads 1 a 4 está associado a um stem.
    Para parar de reproduzir um stem, prima o pad
    correspondente. A luz do pad apaga-se.
  3. Para retomar a reprodução do stem, prima o pad
    correspondente. O pad ilumina-se.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                Stem

           Pad 1                    Vozes
           Pad 2                   Melodia
           Pad 3                    Graves
           Pad 4                  Percussão




                         59
Quando ativa stems numa faixa pela primeira vez, a
separação nem sempre é imediata. Isto poderá
demorar alguns momentos, enquanto o software de
DJing analisa a faixa e gera as diferentes partes
(vozes, melodia, graves e percussão).


Não se esqueça de deixar tempo suficiente entre o
momento em que separa os stems e o momento em
que os reproduz. Quando as diferentes partes dos
stems tiverem sido geradas, a reprodução dos stems
será instantânea.


É necessário um computador potente para utilizar o
modo Stems.




                          60
Modo Sampler

Uma amostra é um som breve reproduzido por cima da
faixa atualmente em reprodução: pode ser reproduzido
uma vez (jingle) ou em repetição (loop).


No DJUCED, os pads 1 a 8 permitem-lhe reproduzir as
oito amostras presentes nas primeiras duas linhas do
amostrador multicamada.
Para visualizar o amostrador multicamada, selecione
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers no menu pendente na
metade superior esquerda do ecrã no DJUCED.


No Serato DJ Lite, os pads 1 a 4 permitem-lhe
reproduzir uma amostra.
Para visualizar o painel de amostras, clique em     no
Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Para aceder ao modo Sampler, prima SAMPLER 4.
    A luz do botão SAMPLER 4 permanece acesa.
  2. Para reproduzir uma amostra, prima um pad.
  3. Para parar de reproduzir uma amostra, prima
    SHIFT e o pad correspondente simultaneamente.




                           61
Modo 5




O Serato DJ Lite não inclui o modo 5 (TonePlay).
O Serato DJ Pro, em conjunto com o plug-in Pitch 'n
Time, oferece um modo Pitch Play que funciona
utilizando o mesmo princípio do modo TonePlay.


No DJUCED, o modo            5 corresponde ao modo
TonePlay. Este modo permite-lhe reproduzir um ponto
Hot Cue em diferentes tons.


  1. Ative o modo Hot Cue e em seguida selecione um
    ponto Hot Cue.
  2. Para aceder ao modo 5, prima SHIFT e HOT CUE 1
    simultaneamente. O botão HOT CUE 1 começa a
    piscar.
  3. Para alterar o tom de um ponto Hot Cue, prima um
    dos pads de 2 a 8.
  4. Para voltar ao tom original, prima o pad 1.




                           62
Alterar o tom:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2           Tom

          Pad 1             Tom original
          Pad 2                 +1
          Pad 3                 +2
          Pad 4                 +3
          Pad 5                 -1
          Pad 6                 -2
          Pad 7                 -3
          Pad 8                 -4




                       63
Modo 6




O Serato DJ Lite não inclui o modo 6.


No DJUCED, o modo 6 corresponde ao modo PadFX.
Este modo permite-lhe controlar os efeitos no painel de
efeitos utilizando os pads.
Um efeito é por vezes um filtro ou uma combinação de
filtros aplicados numa faixa para alterar o respetivo som
(eco, reverberação, etc.).


Para visualizar o painel de efeitos, clique em       .


  1. Para aceder ao modo 6, prima SHIFT e LOOP 2
    simultaneamente. O botão LOOP 2 começa a
    piscar.
  2. Para executar uma ação, prima um pad.
  3. Para     desativar   um       efeito,   prima       o   pad
    correspondente (pad 1 a 3).




                              64
Ações possíveis:

Deck 1 / Deck                  Efeitos

    Pad 1                 Efeito 1 do painel
    Pad 2                 Efeito 2 do painel
    Pad 3                 Efeito 3 do painel
    Pad 4          Mostra/oculta o painel de efeitos
    Pad 5             Altera o efeito 1 no painel
    Pad 6             Altera o efeito 2 no painel
    Pad 7             Altera o efeito 3 no painel
    Pad 8                          -




                          65
Modo 7




No DJUCED, o modo 7 corresponde ao modo Slicer
Loop. No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, o modo 7
corresponde ao modo Manual Loop.


No DJUCED, o modo 7 corresponde ao modo Slicer
Loop. Este modo permite-lhe dividir o loop ativo em oito
secções.


  1. Para aceder ao modo 7 (Slicer Loop), prima SHIFT
    e STEMS 3 simultaneamente. O botão STEMS 3
    começa a piscar.
  2. Para reproduzir uma secção como um loop, prima
    continuamente um pad.
  3. Para parar de reproduzir uma secção, solte o pad
    correspondente.




                          66
No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, o modo 7
corresponde ao modo Manual Loop. Este modo permite-
lhe ativar manualmente um loop.


  1. Para aceder ao modo 7 (Manual Loop), prima
    simultaneamente SHIFT e STEMS 3. O botão
    STEMS 3 começa a piscar.
  2. Para executar uma ação, prima um pad.


Ações possíveis:

   Deck 1/2                       Efeitos

    Pad 1          Primeira pressão: define o ponto de
                                entrada (IN)

    Pad 2          Primeira pressão: define o ponto de
                                saída (OUT)
                   Segunda pressão: altera o ponto de

    Pad 3                 Ativa/desativa o loop
    Pad 4          Move a cabeça de reprodução para o
                     início do loop e reproduz o loop

 Codificador       Aumenta/diminui a duração do loop
 AUTOLOOP




                           67
Modo 8




No DJUCED, o modo 8 corresponde ao modo
BeatJump. No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, o
modo 8 corresponde ao modo Scratch Banks.


No DJUCED, o modo 8 corresponde ao modo
BeatJump. Este modo permite-lhe fazer um salto com
precisão na faixa.


  1. Para aceder ao modo 8 (BeatJump), prima SHIFT e
    SAMPLER 4 simultaneamente. O botão SAMPLER
    4 começa a piscar.
  2. Para fazer um salto, prima um pad.


Duração do salto:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                 Saltar

          Pad 1                  Recuar 1 batida
          Pad 2                 Avançar 1 batida
          Pad 3                 Recuar 2 batidas
          Pad 4                Avançar 2 batidas
          Pad 5                 Recuar 4 batidas
          Pad 6                Avançar 4 batidas
          Pad 7                 Recuar 8 batidas
          Pad 8                Avançar 8 batidas
                          68
No Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro, o modo            8
corresponde ao modo Scratch Banks. Este modo
permite-lhe carregar instantaneamente uma amostra de
scratch no deck para fazer scratch no prato motorizado
em vez da faixa atualmente em reprodução e, em
seguida, regressar rapidamente à faixa que se encontra
em reprodução.
Para visualizar o painel de amostras de scratch, clique
em    no Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Para aceder ao modo 8 (Scratch Banks), prima
     SHIFT e SAMPLER 4 simultaneamente. O botão
     SAMPLER 4 começa a piscar.
  2. Para reproduzir uma amostra de scratch, prima um
     pad.
  3. Para parar de reproduzir uma amostra de scratch e
     regressar à faixa que esteve a ser reproduzida
     anteriormente,    prima    SHIFT      e   o   pad
     correspondente simultaneamente.


Amostras:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2               Amostra

            Pad 1                       Ahh!
            Pad 2                  Hey You!
            Pad 3                      Oww!
            Pad 4                      Yeah!


                           69
Scratching
Fazer scratch consiste em produzir um efeito sonoro a
partir de uma faixa rodando o prato motorizado.


Coloque o dedo indicador em cima do prato motorizado
e faça pequenos movimentos rápidos para a direita e
para a esquerda.


Pode repetir este movimento de scratch múltiplas vezes
para criar um ritmo.




 − Antes de fazer scratch ou misturar, certifique-se de
   que colocou um disco de feltro entre o prato
   motorizado e o disco de vinil.
 − Ao colocar o disco de vinil no prato motorizado, não
   o force. Corre o risco de danificar o centro do disco
   de vinil.




                           70
Filtros
O    ajuste   do   filtro   da    faixa   permite-lhe   atenuar
determinadas frequências.


    − Atenuar as altas frequências (conhecido como filtro
      passa-baixo ou filtro de corte alto): rode o botão do
      filtro (FILTER) para a esquerda.
    − Atenuar as baixas frequências (conhecido como
      filtro passa-alto ou filtro de corte baixo): rode o
      botão do filtro (FILTER) para a direita.




                                 71
  6.     Placa de som multicanal
O controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 inclui uma placa de
som multicanal integrada, permitindo-lhe reproduzir a
sua mistura em altifalantes para o público (saída Master
para altifalantes), monitorizar a faixa seguinte que está a
preparar nos auscultadores (saída de auscultadores) e
utilizar um microfone e/ou um dispositivo equipado com
uma saída de nível de linha como fonte de áudio.




                            72
Saída Master para altifalantes (saídas
1-2)
Os seus altifalantes ativos devem estar ligados a uma
das duas saídas Master para altifalantes situadas na
parte posterior do controlador de DJing.




É   possível   utilizar   simultaneamente   ambos   os
formatos de saída – por exemplo, ligando um par de
saída ao sistema PA e um segundo par de saída a
altifalantes de monitorização.


                            73
Saída de auscultadores (saídas 3-4)
Os auscultadores devem estar ligados a uma das duas
saídas de auscultadores          situadas na parte frontal do
controlador de DJing.




Por predefinição, cada vez que o controlador de DJing é
ligado, a saída de auscultadores é atribuída às saídas 3-
4 para poder funcionar com todo o software de DJing
disponível no mercado – incluindo o DJUCED® e o
Serato DJ Lite, em particular.

No   entanto,   caso    pretenda     utilizar   a   saída   de
auscultadores do controlador de DJing para ouvir
música no computador utilizando o iTunes, por exemplo,
deve encaminhar a saída 1-2 para a saída de
auscultadores. Para tal, prima o botão              situado por
baixo do medidor de VU MASTER.


                           74
Não   recomendamos     que   ligue   dois   pares   de
auscultadores ao mesmo tempo (ou seja, um par ao
conector de saída minijaque de 3,5 mm / 1/8” e outro
par ao conector de saída jaque de 6,35 mm / ¼”). Se
ambos os pares de auscultadores não tiverem a
mesma impedância, os volumes de saída não serão
idênticos.




                        75
Entrada de microfone
O microfone deve estar ligado à entrada "Microphone"
situada na parte posterior do controlador de DJing. A
entrada de microfone é equilibrada.




                          76
Pode   ligar     um        microfone   equilibrado   ou   não
equilibrado. Um microfone equilibrado produz um som
mais nítido e mais potente com menos efeitos de
respiração. Se o seu microfone equilibrado não for
ligado utilizando um cabo equilibrado, o cabo do
microfone irá reduzir a qualidade de som do
microfone.


                       Cabo equilibrado

             Tip (Ponta)
             Ring (Anel)

       Sleeve (Manga)




                       Cabo equilibrado


             Tip (Ponta)


       Sleeve (Manga)




                                77
  7.     Compatibilidade

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Este controlador de DJing é Plug & Play e pode
funcionar sem controladores com o DJUCED em
qualquer PC ou Mac, visto que está em conformidade
com as normas USB Audio e USB MIDI.



Painel de controlo ASIO e Windows®
Para poder utilizar o controlador DJControl Inpulse T7
com o Serato DJ Lite, deve instalar os controladores
ASIO. Os controladores ASIO estão disponíveis aqui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/ (em inglês).


Se estiver a utilizar o DJUCED, também pode transferir
os controladores ASIO a fim de tirar partido da latência
inferior no seu PC.


Os controladores ASIO incluem um painel de controlo
acessível na barra de tarefas no PC, ou no diretório
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\.   Este   painel   permite-lhe   ajustar   as
diferentes definições ASIO, incluindo os tamanhos da
memória intermédia e a latência.


                           78
Para ajustar as definições ASIO:
  − Defina o tamanho da memória intermédia ASIO
    para 4 ou 8 ms.
  − Inicie o seu software (por exemplo: DJUCED®) e
    selecione o controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
    (ASIO):




Assim que o software começa a utilizar o controlador
ASIO, já não será possível alterar as definições ASIO no
painel de controlo. Isto é perfeitamente normal e indica
que o controlador ASIO está a ser utilizado.




                           79
Utilize o software e ouça com atenção para detetar
quaisquer falhas ou artefactos possíveis no áudio
(estalidos, etc.), ou problemas com a latência. No caso
de ocorrerem falhas ou artefactos, terá de aumentar o
tamanho da memória intermédia para resolver os
problemas.


Feche o software e ajuste a memória intermédia ASIO
um valor de cada vez:
  − Reduza o tamanho da memória intermédia para
    reduzir a latência.
  − Aumente o tamanho da memória intermédia se
    notar falhas ou artefactos no áudio.


Terá de repetir este procedimento até encontrar o
tamanho da memória intermédia ideal para o seu
sistema.


Os controladores estão disponíveis aqui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.




                          80
Atualização do firmware
O seu controlador de DJing possui um modo de
atualização automática do firmware. Este requer a
instalação dos controladores Hercules seguindo as
instruções apresentadas no ecrã. A atualização do
firmware é automática.


Os controladores estão disponíveis aqui:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


O painel de controlo também lhe permite aceder a esta
informação e visualizar as versões dos controladores
instalados no seu computador no separador ABOUT
(ACERCA DE). Tenha esta informação consigo caso
necessite de contactar o suporte técnico da Hercules.




                          81
Testar o controlador de DJing no painel
de controlo
Na secção ABOUT (ACERCA DE) do painel de controlo
do DJControl Inpulse T7, pode testar o som, os
controlos MIDI e a iluminação do seu controlador de
DJing, juntamente com os pratos motorizados.


Para aceder ao painel de controlo, vá até ao seguinte
diretório: C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Teste do áudio

Para testar se a interface de áudio do controlador
DJControl Inpulse T7 produz som (sem utilizar software
de DJing para tal), clique no ícone do altifalante. O ícone
fica verde durante o teste e o programa reproduz um
som    nas    saídas    Master     para    altifalantes   e
auscultadores.




                            82
  2. Teste dos controlos MIDI

Para testar se os controlos MIDI do controlador
DJControl Inpulse T7 funcionam (sem utilizar software
de DJing para tal), experimente utilizar os botões ou
outros controlos que pretenda testar. Se o conector DIN
ficar verde, isto significa que o comando MIDI é recebido
e que o botão ou outro controlo funciona corretamente.




                           83
  3. Teste da iluminação

Para testar se as luzes LED do controlador DJControl
Inpulse T7 funcionam (sem utilizar software de DJing
para tal), clique no ícone da lâmpada para acender as
luzes LED do controlador. O ícone fica verde durante o
teste e as luzes LED do controlador acendem-se.




Pode também acender todas as luzes LED do
controlador    DJControl        Inpulse T7   premindo
simultaneamente os botões IN e OUT em ambos os
decks.




                           84
  4. Teste dos pratos motorizados

Para testar se os pratos motorizados do controlador
DJControl Inpulse T7 funcionam (sem utilizar software
de DJing para tal), clique no ícone do prato 1 ou 2. Os
ícones do prato correspondente e o conector DIN ficam
verdes durante o teste e o prato motorizado move-se
(ou seja, roda) no controlador.


Teste do prato motorizado número 1:




Teste do prato motorizado número 2:




                           85
  8.    Modo Demo
Este modo está disponível quando liga o seu controlador
de DJing a uma fonte de alimentação e a uma fonte de
alimentação USB sem um computador, sendo utilizado
na loja, em particular. Neste caso, o controlador de
DJing não está operacional, mas sim no modo de
demonstração: uma sequência de demonstração que
acende as diferentes luzes do controlador é repetida
automaticamente de forma contínua.




                          86
  9.      Perguntas frequentes

 1.       Não      há      som        nos       meus
      auscultadores.
Certifique-se de que ligou os auscultadores à parte
frontal do controlador de DJing, uma vez que o seu
controlador de DJing está equipado com uma placa de
som multicanal pré-configurada para funcionar com o
DJUCED® e o Serato DJ Lite.
Por predefinição, os dois botões de monitorização são
ativados quando o software é iniciado pela primeira vez.
Pode selecionar em seguida qualquer deck que
pretenda ouvir nos auscultadores, ou prima o botão
       situado por baixo do medidor de VU MASTER para
ouvir os resultados da sua mistura.




                           87
  2.     O som nos meus auscultadores
    está distorcido.
Certifique-se de que os seus auscultadores possuem
um conector TRS (auscultadores padrões) e não um
conector TRRS (auscultadores + microfone).


       Tip (Ponta)                    Tip (Ponta)
       Ring (Anel)                    Ring (Anel)
                                      Ring (Anel)
   Sleeve (Manga)
                                      Sleeve (Manga)




Os conectores TRRS não são compatíveis com o
controlador DJControl Inpulse T7.




                          88
  3.    Não       há      som        nos      meus
    altifalantes.
Certifique-se de que ligou os auscultadores aos
conectores RCA ou XLR na parte posterior do
controlador de DJing, uma vez que o seu controlador de
DJing está equipado com uma placa de som multicanal
pré-configurada para funcionar com o DJUCED® e o
Serato DJ Lite.


De modo a testar (sem utilizar software de DJing) se a
interface de áudio do controlador DJControl Inpulse T7
produz som, pode visualizar o painel de controlo do
controlador de DJing. Clique no separador ABOUT
(ACERCA DE) e em seguida no ícone do altifalante. O
ícone fica verde quando é reproduzido som.




                         89
  4.        Não há som nos altifalantes do
       meu computador portátil.
O seu controlador de DJing está equipado com uma
placa de som multicanal pré-configurada. Caso pretenda
utilizar os altifalantes integrados do seu computador
portátil:
  − No DJUCED®, aceda às definições e selecione a
       opção    SEND        MASTER       TO      COMPUTER
       SPEAKERS (ENVIAR O SINAL PRINCIPAL PARA
       OS ALTIFALANTES DO COMPUTADOR).




  − No Serato DJ Lite, aceda às definições, abra o
       separador Audio (Áudio) e selecione a opção Use
       Laptop    Speakers      (Utilizador    altifalantes   do
       computador portátil).




                               90
 5.       Não         há      som          nos      meus
      auscultadores ou nos altifalantes do
      meu computador portátil.
Por predefinição, o som provém da saída Master para
altifalantes e da saída de auscultadores. Como tal, é
normal que o seu computador portátil não emita
qualquer som.


Caso pretenda utilizar os altifalantes integrados do seu
computador portátil:
  − No DJUCED®, aceda às definições e selecione a
      opção        SEND    MASTER      TO        COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (ENVIAR O SINAL PRINCIPAL PARA
      OS ALTIFALANTES DO COMPUTADOR). Deve
      ligar   os    seus   auscultadores    ao   controlador
      DJControl Inpulse T7.




                              91
  − No Serato DJ Lite, aceda às definições, abra o
    separador Audio (Áudio) e selecione a opção Use
    Laptop   Speakers      (Utilizador    altifalantes    do
    computador    portátil).    Deve     ligar   os      seus
    auscultadores ao controlador DJControl Inpulse T7.




De modo a testar (sem utilizar software de DJing) se a
interface de áudio do controlador DJControl Inpulse T7
produz som, pode visualizar o painel de controlo do
controlador de DJing. Clique no separador ABOUT
(ACERCA DE) e em seguida no ícone do altifalante. O
ícone fica verde quando é reproduzido som.




                           92
  6.     Estou a ter problemas com a
    qualidade do som no Windows®.

O volume da faixa em reprodução é demasiado
baixo.

O volume principal do software de DJing é independente
dos controlos de volume do controlador de DJing. Como
tal, enquanto o volume principal do software de DJing
for baixo, o volume da saída Master também será baixo.

Verifique o volume do software de DJing e aumente-o,
se necessário.

  − No DJUCED, utilize o botão do volume situado na
    barra na metade superior direita da janela.




  − No Serato DJ Lite, utilize o botão do volume situado
    na barra na metade superior direita da janela.




                          93
O    volume       nos     meus      auscultadores   é
demasiado baixo.

No Serato DJ Lite, aceda às definições, abra o
separador Audio (Áudio) e desmarque (ou seja,
desselecione) a opção Use Laptop Speakers (Utilizar
altifalantes do computador portátil).




                            94
Se necessitar de manter a caixa Use Laptop Speakers
(Utilizar altifalantes do computador portátil) marcada (ou
seja, selecionada), defina a placa de som integrada do
computador como “Altifalantes do computador”:
  1. Feche o software Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Aceda às definições do Windows e vá até System
    (Sistema) e em seguida Sound (Som).
  3. Em Output (Saída), selecione a placa de som
    integrada do computador. O seu controlador de
    DJing não deverá voltar a ser definido como saída.




O Windows® poderá ter definido o seu controlador de
DJing como a placa de som do Windows®. Se mantiver
esta definição, a opção Use Laptop Speakers (Utilizar
altifalantes do computador portátil) poderá reproduzir a
saída Master na saída de 4 canais (saída Master +
auscultadores) do seu controlador de DJing.




                           95
O som não é nítido.

No DJUCED®:
Recomendamos que utilize um dispositivo de áudio
ASIO. Com um dispositivo WASAPI, a qualidade do som
geralmente é boa. No entanto, a latência poderá
aumentar e o som não ser nítido.


Aceda às definições, clique no separador Audio (Áudio)
e selecione DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) como o
Audio device (Dispositivo de áudio).




No Serato DJ Lite:
Aceda às definições, abra o separador Audio (Áudio) e
desmarque (ou seja, desselecione) a opção Use Laptop
Speakers (Utilizar altifalantes do computador portátil).




                            96
  7.        Não     consigo            ligar       os     meus
     altifalantes multimédia ao DJControl
     Inpulse T7.
Se os conectores dos seus altifalantes forem diferentes
dos conectores do DJControl Inpulse T7, pode utilizar
um adaptador duplo RCA/minijaque de 3,5 mm / 1/8”
(não incluído) para ligar altifalantes multimédia, um
adaptador duplo XLR/jaque de 6,35 mm / ¼” (não
incluído) para ligar altifalantes PA ou qualquer outro
formato     de    adaptador       correspondente        aos     seus
altifalantes.
Também       pode    ligar   os     altifalantes   à    saída    de
auscultadores e encaminhar as saídas 1-2 para as
saídas 3-4 premindo o botão               situado por baixo do
medidor de VU MASTER.



  8.        O       controlador                    DJControl
     Inpulse T7 é compatível com um
     iPad ou iPhone?
Não,    o   controlador      DJControl     Inpulse T7     não     é
compatível com um iPad ou iPhone. Apenas funciona
com um PC ou Mac.




                               97
  9.     Como posso ligar o controlador
    DJControl Inpulse T7 a uma porta
    USB-C ou a uma porta Thunderbolt
    3?
Pode ligar o controlador DJControl Inpulse T7 a uma
porta USB-C ou a uma porta Thunderbolt 3 de três
maneiras diferentes:
  − Utilizando um adaptador (USB-C [macho] ou
    Thunderbolt 3/USB-A [fêmea]) entre o computador
    e o controlador de DJing. Note que alguns
    adaptadores de baixo custo não funcionarão
    corretamente, uma vez que cortam parte da
    alimentação.
  − Utilizando uma estação de ancoragem (USB-C ou
    Thunderbolt 3) entre o computador e o controlador
    de DJing. Certifique-se de que a estação de
    ancoragem      tem    uma     fonte   de   alimentação
    dedicada, uma vez que uma estação de ancoragem
    alimentada apenas através da porta USB-C ou
    Thunderbolt    3     poderá   não     fornecer   energia
    suficiente.
  − Substituindo o cabo USB incluído por um cabo
    USB-C ou Thunderbolt 3/USB-B 2.0.




                            98
    SUPORTE TÉCNICO
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Marcas comerciais
Intel® e Intel Core™ são marcas comerciais ou marcas registadas da
Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 é uma marca registada ou marca comercial
da Microsoft Corporation nos EUA e/ou noutros países.
Mac® e macOS® são marcas comerciais da Apple Inc., registadas nos
EUA e noutros países.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite e Serato DJ Pro são marcas registadas da Serato
Audio Research Limited.
A marca DJUCED e os elementos gráficos do DJUCED são
propriedade da Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO é uma marca comercial da Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Todas as outras marcas comerciais e nomes de marcas são por este
meio reconhecidos e pertencem aos respetivos proprietários. As
ilustrações não são vinculativas. Os conteúdos, os desenhos e as
especificações neste documento estão sujeitos a alteração sem aviso
prévio e podem variar consoante o país.




                                 100
Direitos de autor
Nenhuma parte deste manual pode ser reproduzida, resumida,
transmitida, transcrita, armazenada num sistema de recuperação ou
traduzida para qualquer idioma ou linguagem informática, sob qualquer
forma ou por qualquer meio, eletrónico, mecânico, magnético, manual,
via fotocópia, gravação ou outro, sem o consentimento expresso por
escrito da Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                  101
Contrato de Licença de Utilizador
Final do DJUCED® e Serato DJ Lite
Leia atentamente o Contrato de Licença apresentado durante a
instalação do DJUCED® e Serato DJ Lite.




                                102
Руководство пользователя
                    ОГЛАВЛЕНИЕ


1.   СОДЕРЖИМОЕ КОРОБКИ .......................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ..... 8

2.   ТЕХНИЧЕСКИЕ ХАРАКТЕРИСТИКИ ....... 10

3.   ОПИСАНИЕ УСТРОЙСТВА ....................... 13

     Общая информация................................. 13

     Деки ............................................................. 14

     Микширование .......................................... 32

     Разъемы ..................................................... 43

4.   УСТАНОВКА ............................................... 46

     Подключение ............................................. 46

     Загрузка программного

     обеспечения .............................................. 49

5.   ТВОРЧЕСКАЯ РАБОТА С МИКСАМИ ..... 54

     Режимы и пэды ......................................... 54

     Скретчинг ................................................. 70

     Фильтры .................................................... 71
6.   МНОГОКАНАЛЬНАЯ ЗВУКОВАЯ

     КАРТА.......................................................... 72

     Master-выход для колонок

     (выход 1-2) ................................................. 73

     Выход для наушников (выход 3-4) ....... 74

     Вход для микрофона ............................... 76

7.   СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ ................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ................................ 78

     ASIO и панель управления для

     Windows® .................................................... 78

     Обновление прошивки ............................ 81

     Тестирование DJ-контроллера на

     панели управления .................................. 82

8.   ДЕМОНСТРАЦИОННЫЙ РЕЖИМ ............ 86

9.   ЧАСТО ЗАДАВАЕМЫЕ ВОПРОСЫ ......... 87
Hercules   DJControl      Inpulse   T7    —     это
полнофункциональный       контроллер,    призванный
помочь вам овладеть искусством игры на виниловых
проигрывателях благодаря двум моторизованным
дискам, видеоурокам и интеграции программного
обеспечения DJUCED и Serato DJ Lite.




В состав комплекта Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
входит лицензия на Serato DJ Lite, но не входит
лицензия на Serato DJ Pro.
Лицензия на Serato DJ Lite предоставляется без
ограничения по времени.
При установке Serato DJ Pro вместо Serato DJ Lite,
Serato DJ Pro будет работать с контроллером
DJControl Inpulse T7 в течение пробного периода.
Если вы решите и далее использовать Serato DJ
Pro, то по окончании пробного периода вам нужно
будет приобрести лицензию на Serato DJ Pro.
                          4
Научиться микшировать с помощью контроллера
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 можно с помощью
различных видеоуроков:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (на английском языке):
       o В DJUCED, щелкнув значок    .
       o На веб-сайте DJUCED.
  − На канале Hercules Audio в YouTube (на
    английском языке).
  − На курсах DJ Coach, которые DJ HAPA
    проводит для обучения работе с Serato DJ Lite
    (на английском языке).




                         5
 1.   Содержимое коробки

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Контроллер Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Две виниловые пластинки (7 дюймов (17,8 см))
 − Два войлочных слип-мата
 − Оплетенный кабель USB
 − Отсоединяемый кабель питания
 − Блок питания
 − Инструкция по эксплуатации
 − Гарантийный талон




                        6
Вы можете снять защитную пленку, закрывающую
измерители уровня громкости на контроллере
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7. Но делать это
необязательно,   поскольку   пленка   не   мешает
пользоваться измерителями уровня громкости и не
влияет на их работу.




                       7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Контроллер     Hercules       DJControl     Inpulse T7
   Premium Edition
 − Две виниловые пластинки (7 дюймов / 17,8 см)
 − Два войлочных слип-мата
 − Два тонких войлочных слип-мата
 − Оплетенный кабель USB
 − Отсоединяемый кабель питания
 − Блок питания
 − Транспортировочная сумка
 − Инструкция по эксплуатации
 − Гарантийный талон




Защитную    пленку,    закрывающую           измерители
уровня   громкости    на       контроллере     Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition, можно снять.
Но делать это необязательно, поскольку пленка не
мешает     пользоваться        измерителями      уровня
громкости и не влияет на их работу.




                           9
  2.      Технические характеристики
Системные требования:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (на английском языке)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
       https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemrequ
       irements#system-requirements (на английском
       языке)

Аудиовыходы:
            o Разрешение = 24 бита
            o Частота дискретизации = 44,1 кГц

Master-выходы для колонок (выход 1-2):
  − Два разъема RCA:
            o Максимальная        выходная   мощность   =
                7 dBU при 1 kΩ
  − Два разъема XLR (симметричные):
            o Максимальная        выходная   мощность   =
                13 dBU при 1 kΩ

Выход     на    наушники    (выход    3-4)   через   один
стереоразъем мини-джек 3,5 мм и один стандартный
стереоразъем 6,35 мм:
            o Максимальная        выходная   мощность   =
                5 dBU для 32 Ω при 1 кГц

Вход для микрофона через один стандартный разъем
6,35 мм (симметричный)
                            10
                  Питание
− Используйте только тот блок питания, который
 указан в руководстве пользователя.
− Используйте   блок        питания   только   с
 напряжением и частотой сети, указанными на
 заводской табличке блока питания.




                       11
          Информация о блоке питания
Опубликованная           Значение            Единица
 информация
Наименование или        GUILLEMOT
 торговая марка      CORPORATION S.A.
 производителя       414 196 758 R.C.S.
Номер предприятия         Vannes
      Адрес         2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                       56910 Carentoir
                          Франция
 Идентификатор         A481-1852590D
    модели
    Входное               100-240               В
   напряжение
Входная частота            50-60                Гц
переменного тока
    Выходное                  18,5               В
   напряжение                               постоянного
                                                тока
  Выходной ток                2,6               А
    Выходная                  47,9              Вт
    мощность
  Средний КПД в               87,8              %
 рабочем режиме
  КПД при малой               87,8              %
  нагрузке (10%)
  Потребляемая                0,10              Вт
  мощность без
    нагрузки




                         12
 3.     Описание устройства

Общая информация




 1. Моторизованный диск
 2. Транспортные кнопки (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Управление петлями (Loop)
 4. Элементы        управления         выбором   треков
      (Browser, Load, Assist./Prep.)
 5. Фейдер темпа (Pitch fader)
 6. Пэды и режимы
 7. Режимы воспроизведения
 8. Мониторинг, громкость (Master, наушники и
      микрофон) и Beatmatch Guide
 9. Секция сведения (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Микшер (кроссфейдер, фейдеры громкости)
 11. Эффекты




                          13
Деки

    1. Моторизованный диск




Войлочный      слип-мат:    устанавливается    между
моторизованным диском и виниловой пластинкой.
Защищает виниловую пластинку от трения о платтер
и    снижает    вибрацию        при   воспроизведении
пластинки.




 Перед       установкой     виниловой      пластинки
 обязательно поместите войлочный слип-мат на
 моторизованный диск.




                           14
Виниловая пластинка: позволяет делать скретчинг,
ускорять      или   замедлять   воспроизведение   и
перемещаться внутри трека.
Линия на этикетке виниловой пластинки является
точкой отсчета (т. е. маркером) для микширования и
скретчинга.


Выполняемое действие зависит от двух условий:
  − Воспроизводится трек или стоит на паузе.
  − В каком месте вы касаетесь винилового диска
    (поверхность (top) или кольцо (ring)).


                         Поверхность




   Кольцо




                          15
Действия, которые выполняют виниловые пластинки
в Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro:


 Воспроизведение/ Моторизованны            Кнопка
      Пауза           й диск               SHIFT
  Воспроизведение        Поверхность          -
                      Скретчинг
                          Поверхность/    Нажмите и
  Воспроизведение
                            кольцо       удерживайте
           Быстрое перемещение по треку
  Воспроизведение           Кольцо            -
     Ускорение или замедление воспроизведения
                         Поверхность/
         Пауза                                -
                           кольцо
          Медленное перемещение по треку
                         Поверхность/     Нажмите и
         Пауза
                           кольцо        удерживайте
           Быстрое перемещение по треку




                          16
Действия с виниловыми пластинками с DJUCED:


 Воспроизведение/ Моторизованный      Кнопка
      Пауза            диск           SHIFT
  Воспроизведение    Поверхность         -
                    Скретчинг
                     Поверхность/    Нажмите и
  Воспроизведение
                       кольцо       удерживайте
         Быстрое перемещение по треку
  Воспроизведение       Кольцо           -
    Ускорение или замедление воспроизведения
       Пауза            Кольцо           -
        Медленное перемещение по треку




                       17
Моторизованный         диск     приводит       в    движение
виниловую       пластинку,           которая        управляет
воспроизведением       трека     и     его     скоростью       в
соответствии    с    темпом,    заданным        с    помощью
фейдера темпа.

Когда     включена      функция        Beatmatch           Guide,
визуальные     подсказки      BEAT      ALIGN       указывают
направление, в котором нужно повернуть кольцо (т. е.
край)        моторизованного            диска,             чтобы
синхронизировать сетки ритмов двух треков. Если два
красных индикатора в форме стрелок погаснут, это
означает, что сетки ритмов синхронизированы.

Дополнительная информация о функции Beatmatch
Guide содержится в разделе Beatmatch Guide.




 Отключение функции привода у платтеров не
 предусмотрено.




 Чтобы не повредить                  систему привода, во
 время    вращения      моторизованного            диска     не
 останавливайте его рукой надолго.
 Не прилагайте усилий при размещении виниловой
 пластинки на моторизованном диске. В противном
 случае    можно     повредить       центральную       часть
 виниловой пластинки.

                           18
  2. Транспортные кнопки




SHIFT — используется в комбинациях с другими
кнопками. Например:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK) — блокировка
    музыкального ключа трека.
  − SHIFT + IN в DJUCED® делит длину активной
    петли на два.

SYNC — включает или выключает автоматическую
синхронизацию значений BPM (число ударов в
минуту) для двух треков.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o В DJUCED — делает данную деку декой
        мастер-синхронизации (Master Sync).
      o В Serato DJ Lite — отключает синхронизацию
        на деке.




                           19
CUE —     ставит     точку       Cue       для     обозначения
определенного момента в треке или перемещает
курсор воспроизведения на место точки Cue.
  − Если трек стоит на паузе, то кнопка ставит точку
    Cue в том месте, на котором остановлен трек.
  − Если трек воспроизводится, то воспроизведение
    останавливается         и        курсор      данной     деки
    перемещается в точку Cue.
      o В DJUCED, если точка Cue еще не создана,
        то         кнопка            CUE         останавливает
        воспроизведение и устанавливает точку Cue в
        месте               расположения                  курсора
        воспроизведения.
      o В Serato DJ Lite, если точка Cue еще не
        создана,     то     кнопка      CUE      останавливает
        воспроизведение и устанавливает точку Cue в
        начале трека.
  − CUE      +       PLAY —           перемещает           курсор
    воспроизведения в точку              Cue и продолжает
    воспроизведение трека с этой точки.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
     o В DJUCED — перемещает курсор в начало
        трека и останавливает воспроизведение.
     o В Serato DJ Lite — перемещает курсор в
        начало трека и включает воспроизведение.

Воспроизведение/Пауза —                               включает
воспроизведение или ставит трек на паузу.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: в Serato DJ Lite перемещает курсор
    воспроизведения в точку Cue и воспроизводит трек
    с этого маркера.

                                20
  3. Управление петлями




Энкодер AUTOLOOP:
  − Нажатие энкодера включает или выключает
    воспроизведение петли.
  − Поворот энкодера регулирует длину петли.


IN/OUT — позволяет включить петлю, выбрав точку
начала (IN) и точку окончания (OUT) цикличного
воспроизведения.
Когда петля активна (включена):
  − Нажмите IN (кнопка начнет мигать) и поверните
    моторизованный диск, чтобы переместить начало
    петли.
  − Нажмите OUT (кнопка начнет мигать) и поверните
    моторизованный     диск,      чтобы   переместить
    окончание петли.
Для выхода из петли нажмите энкодер AUTOLOOP.
При использовании DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN — делит длину активной петли на два.
  − SHIFT + OUT — умножает длину активной петли
    на два.
  − Длинное нажатие на IN включает цикл из четырех
    ударов.
                         21
  4. Элементы управления выбором треков




Энкодер    BROWSER*        позволяет   просматривать
медиатеку и список треков, поворачивая ручку влево
(перемещение вверх) или вправо (перемещение
вниз).
Нажимайте энкодер для выбора папок и загрузки
выбранного трека на соответствующую деку.


Кольцо с подсветкой:
  − В DJUCED показывает уровень энергии мастер-
    трека для данного темпа.
  − В Serato DJ Lite показывает ритм. Свет мигает в
    такт треку:
          o красный цвет обозначает первый удар
            такта.
          o синий цвет обозначает три следующих
            удара такта.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − В DJUCED открывает панель со списком
    наиболее подходящих следующих треков для
    вашего микса.
    Для перемещения по списку предлагаемых
    треков поверните энкодер BROWSER.
    Для     выбора    дорожки       нажмите    энкодер
    BROWSER. Уже загруженный на эту деку трек
    необходимо поставить на паузу.
    Нажмите ASSIST./PREP. и поверните энкодер,
    чтобы     отрегулировать        уровень    энергии
    предлагаемых треков.
  − В Serato DJ Lite добавляет воспроизводимый в
    данный    момент     трек   в     список   Prepare
    (Подготовить).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP. — открывает панель
    Prepare (Подготовить).


BACK* позволяет перемещаться по иерархической
структуре каталогов DJUCED и Serato DJ Lite.
  − В DJUCED        нажмите SHIFT      и BACK для
    возврата в колонку библиотеки.




*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.
                        23
 5. Фейдер темпа




Фейдер       темпа        устанавливает         скорость
воспроизведения трека, регулируя число BPM.
  − Если    переместить     регулятор     вверх,   темп
    замедляется.
  − Если переместить вниз, темп ускоряется.
  − Если    фейдер      стоит     посередине,       трек
    воспроизводится с исходной скоростью. При
    этом загорается белый светодиод.


Когда    функция     Beatmatch      Guide      включена,
визуальные подсказки TEMPO показывают, нужно ли
сместить регулятор темпа вверх или вниз, чтобы
замедлить   или    ускорить     трек.   Если    красные
индикаторы в форме стрелок не светятся, это
означает, что на обеих деках треки воспроизводятся
с одинаковым темпом.


Дополнительная информация о функции Beatmatch
Guide содержится в разделе Beatmatch Guide.

                          24
В Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro, если включен режим
SYNC, перемещение регулятора при нажатой кнопке
SHIFT позволяет смещать значения фейдера темпа,
сохраняя амплитуду.


Например, при шкале темпа ±8% (амплитуда 16%)
можно сместить значения таким образом, чтобы
шкала шла от 0% (максимум) до -16% (минимум), то
есть амплитуда все равно составит 16%, но в центре
будет значение -8%.




                        25
RANGE* позволяет изменять шкалу темпа фейдеров
темпа.
  − В DJUCED: ± 6%, ± 8%, ± 10%, ± 12%, ± 16%, ±
    20%, ± 25%, ± 33%, ± 50%.
  − В Serato DJ Lite: ± 8%, ± 16%, ± 50%.
SHIFT    +   RANGE     (KEYLOCK)     —      блокировка
музыкального ключа трека.
Чтобы убедиться в том, что музыкальный ключ
заблокирован, нажмите SHIFT. При этом загорится
кнопка RANGE.




*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.
                         26
 6. Пэды и режимы




Кнопки режимов позволяют использовать (включать
и выключать) до восьми режимов.
Чтобы включить основной режим, нажмите HOT CUE
1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 или SAMPLER 4.
Чтобы включить вторичный режим (MODE 5, MODE
6, MODE 7 и MODE 8), нажмите SHIFT одновременно
с кнопкой HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 или
SAMPLER 4. Кнопка режима замигает.
Привязка режимов к пэдам зависит от программного
обеспечения.


Дополнительную    информацию      о   режимах   в
DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro вы найдете
в разделе Режимы и пэды.


Рабочие пэды — пэды, выполняющие действие.




                       27
 7. Режимы воспроизведения




INSTRUMENTAL позволяет воспроизводить только
партии мелодии, баса и ударных в треке. Это ярлык
для перехода в режим Stems.
 − Чтобы воспроизвести только партию мелодии,
   баса или ударных в треке, нажмите кнопку
   INSTRUMENTAL.          При    этом       загорится
   соответствующая кнопка.
 − Чтобы    возобновить     воспроизведение     всех
   частей   дорожки   (вокала,   мелодии,    баса   и
   ударных), нажмите кнопку INSTRUMENTAL еще
   раз. При этом индикатор кнопки выключится.




                       28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL — включает режим Slip. В
режиме      Slip   курсор        воспроизведения    деки
продолжает двигаться в фоновом режиме, пока вы
применяете эффект или петлю, ставите точку Cue
или пользуетесь моторизованными дисками. Когда
вы        прекращаете       применение        эффекта,
воспроизведение возобновляется с того места, в
котором      находился      бы       трек,   если    бы
воспроизведение продолжалось.
Чтобы убедиться, что режим Slip включен, нажмите
SHIFT. При этом загорится кнопка INSTRUMENTAL.




В Serato DJ Lite нет режима Slip.
В Serato DJ Pro режим Slip есть.




                            29
VOCAL позволяет воспроизводить только вокальную
партию трека. Это ярлык для перехода в режим
Stems.
  − Чтобы воспроизвести только вокальную партию
    трека,   нажмите   кнопку     VOCAL.   При   этом
    загорится соответствующая кнопка.
  − Чтобы    возобновить      воспроизведение     всех
    частей   дорожки   (вокала,    мелодии,    баса   и
    ударных), нажмите кнопку VOCAL еще раз. При
    этом индикатор кнопки выключится.


SHIFT + VOCAL — включает режим дискретизации.
Дискретизация позволяет применить действие к
следующему такту в сетке (воспроизведение трека,
размещение точки Cue, запуск петли и т. д.).
Чтобы убедиться, что режим дискретизации включен,
нажмите SHIFT. При этом загорится кнопка VOCAL.




В Serato DJ Lite нет функции дискретизации.
В Serato DJ Pro функция дискретизации есть.




                         30
     (pitch bend -) /         (pitch bend +) — позволяет
вручную      выровнять        сетку    ритмов      трека,
воспроизводимого на одной деке, с сеткой ритмов
трека, воспроизводимого на другой деке.
  − Нажмите     и       удерживайте   кнопку         для
    кратковременного замедления деки.
  − Нажмите     и       удерживайте   кнопку         для
    кратковременного ускорения деки.




 В Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro кнопки SHIFT +
      и SHIFT +               позволяют регулировать
 настройки          в      определенных         режимах
 («Настройки»).




                             31
Микширование

  8. Мониторинг, громкость и Beatmatch
    Guide




Громкость      MIC     —   регулировка      громкости
микрофона.

Кольцо с подсветкой MIC указывает на уровень
аудиосигнала (измеритель уровня громкости).
  − Не светится: аудиосигнал отсутствует.
  − Светится    зеленым      светом:     аудиосигнал
    воспроизводится.
  − Светится    красным      светом:     насыщенный
    аудиосигнал.

Ручка громкости MASTER регулирует громкость
микса, звучащего в ваших колонках.

Измеритель      уровня       громкости      MASTER
отображает уровень аудиосигнала Master-выхода
(RCA или XLR) для колонок.
                       32
Громкость HEADPHONES:
 −       /         — регулирует сигнал, выводимый на
     наушники, комбинируя выход Cue (мониторинг
     дек 1 и 2) и выход Mix (выход Master).
       o Чтобы      прослушать         только      мониторинг,
         нажмите кнопки мониторинга для дек 1 и 2.
         При        этом      соответствующие           кнопки
         загорятся. После чего установите ручку в
         положение Cue.
       o Чтобы прослушивать только выход Master,
         нажмите кнопку мониторинга выхода Master.
         При       этом     загорится      соответствующая
         кнопка. После чего установите регулятор в
         положение         Mix,    чтобы   настроить     микс,
         воспроизводимый в наушниках.
 −             —     регулирует        громкость     звука   в
     наушниках.




                                  33
Мониторинг — выбор источника звука, который вы
будете слышать в наушниках.
  −              (расположен под измерителем уровня
      громкости MASTER) будет воспроизводиться
      микс так, как его слышат окружающие.
  −       * (по обе стороны от кнопки BEATMATCH
      GUIDE): воспроизводит звук деки 1 или деки 2,
      когда кнопка Cue/Mix установлена в положение
      Cue.
В программе Serato DJ Lite нажмите SHIFT и              *
(рядом       с    кнопкой   BEATMATCH    GUIDE),    чтобы
изменить сетку ритмов трека, воспроизводимого на
данной           деке.   Чтобы   выйти     из      режима
редактирования сетки ритмов, нажмите Edit Grid
(Редактировать сетку).




*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.
                        34
BEATMATCH      GUIDE   включает   или   выключает
световые подсказки, помогающие настраивать темп
и синхронизировать сетки ритмов двух треков. На
каждой деке есть четыре красные стрелки.




DJUCED определяет одну из дек как ведущую
деку синхронизации (Master Sync), а другую — как
ведомую деку. Красные стрелки загораются только
на ведомой деке, так как эта дека следует темпу
ведущей деки синхронизации.
Serato DJ Lite не определяет ведущую деку
синхронизации. Красные стрелки загораются на
обеих деках.




                       35
− Визуальные подсказки TEMPO: если одна из
 двух красных стрелок, расположенных справа от
 регулятора темпа, светится, это означает, что
 темп (т. е. количество ударов в минуту) трека,
 воспроизводимого на данной деке, отличается
 от темпа другой деки.
 Стрелки указывают направление, в котором
 нужно     перемещать     ручку   фейдера,   чтобы
 согласовать темп воспроизводимого трека с
 темпом на другой деке.
         o Если светится верхняя стрелка, ручку
           фейдера    необходимо      переместить
           вверх. Это позволит замедлить темп.
         o Если светится нижняя стрелка, ручку
           фейдера необходимо переместить вниз.
           Это позволит ускорить темп.
         o Если стрелки не светятся, это означает,
           что темп деки совпадает с темпом
           мастер-деки.




                        36
− Визуальные     подсказки         BEAT      ALIGN:     если
 светится    одна      из    двух        красных    стрелок,
 расположенных под моторизованным диском,
 это     означает,     что       сетка     ритмов      трека,
 воспроизводимого            на     этой       деке,      не
 синхронизирована с сеткой ритмов другой деки.
 Стрелки указывают направление, в котором
 нужно     поворачивать          моторизованный         диск,
 чтобы синхронизировать сетки ритмов.
         o Светится     левая       стрелка:       поверните
           моторизованный           диск     по      часовой
           стрелке. Это ускорит воспроизведение.
         o Светится     левая       стрелка:       поверните
           моторизованный диск против часовой
           стрелки.               Это              замедлит
           воспроизведение.
         o Если стрелки не светятся, это означает,
           что       сетки        ритмов       двух      дек
           синхронизированы.




                            37
  9. Секция микширования




Ручка GAIN* позволяет выбрать усиление (т. е.
уровень громкости до применения фейдера).


3-полосный      эквалайзер      (EQ)*    регулирует
интенсивность EQ. Для каждого диапазона есть своя
ручка: HIGH, MID и LOW.


Ручка FILTER* позволяет установить частоты для
двустороннего       фильтра   (высокочастотного   и
низкочастотного).




*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.
                        38
  10.   Микшер




Измеритель уровня громкости показывает уровень
аудиосигнала на деках 1 и 2.

Фейдер громкости* позволяет настроить громкость
деки.

Кроссфейдер позволяет создать переход между
двумя треками, увеличивая громкость одной из дек,
при этом уменьшая громкость другой деки.
  − Если кроссфейдер переместить до упора влево,
    вы будете слышать только трек на деке 1.
  − Если кроссфейдер переместить до упора вправо,
    вы будете слышать только трек на деке 2.
  − Если     ручку        кроссфейдера     установить
    посередине,      вы    будете   слышать     треки
    одновременно на деке 1 и на деке 2.

                           39
Переключатель кривой позволяет изменять кривую
кроссфейдера.
 −        (mix) — прогрессивное микширование на
     двух деках.
 −      (scratch) — очень быстрое микширование на
     двух деках.
 −        (выключен)     —      кроссфейдер        выключен
     (микширование       только     с      использованием
     фейдеров громкости).




В программах Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro можно
менять настройки кроссфейдера. Перейдите в
раздел «Настройки», затем в Mixer:
− Power     (Усиление)    —     быстрая      кривая    для
  скретчинга.
− Linear (Линейность) — прогрессивная кривая
  микширования.
− Reverse     (Реверс)    —       меняет     направление
  кроссфейдера,      также      известен     как     режим
  Hamster.




*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.

                           40
  11.     Эффекты




Чтобы отобразить панель эффектов:
  − В DJUCED щелкните           .
  − В Serato DJ Lite щелкните          .


Кнопки эффектов        /     /       * позволяют выбрать
эффект на панели эффектов. При этом загорится
соответствующая кнопка.
Чтобы       включить       эффект,         воспользуйтесь
переключателем управления эффектами.
Для изменения эффектов, связанных с кнопками              /
  /     ,   выберите   новый         эффект    на    панели
эффектов. В программах Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ
Pro можно также нажать SHIFT и             ,   или     для
отображения списка эффектов, затем снова нажать
SHIFT и     ,   или    для перемещения по списку и
выбора нового эффекта.




В Serato DJ Lite:
− Возможно одновременное сочетание нескольких

                           41
  эффектов.
− Три эффекта      /      /     слева применяются к
  левой деке (Дека 1), а три эффекта          /     /
  справа применяются к правой деке (Дека 2).
В программе Serato DJ Pro две группы из трех
кнопок воспроизведения эффектов действуют для
двух виртуальных дек.


Переключатель          управления          эффектами*
позволяет включить эффект, загруженный на кнопки
 ,    или   . Существуют три различные позиции:
  − HOLD:     постоянно       применяет   эффект,       пока
     рычажок находится в этом положении.
  − ON: кратковременно применяет эффект, пока
     рычажок находится в этом положении.
  − Центральное положение: эффект отключен.


Ручка DEPTH регулирует интенсивность эффекта.


Кнопки        /    регулируют длительность цикла
эффекта, синхронизированного с музыкой.




В    программе    DJUCED        эти   функциональные
возможности не предусмотрены.


*Функции кнопок на деках 1 и 2 совпадают.
                        42
Разъемы




 12.   Master-выход для колонок (выход 1-2)
 13.   Симметричный вход для микрофона
 14.   Порт USB-B 2.0
 15.   Кнопка POWER
 16.   Разъем для подключения блока питания
 17.   Выход для наушников (выход 3-4)


Master-выход для колонок (выход 1-2) позволяет
подключать активные динамики.
Форматы:     2    симметричных    RCA    (Cinch)   и   2
несимметричных XLR.


Симметричный вход для микрофона позволяет
подключить       симметричное    или   несимметричное
соединение для микрофона.
Формат: Разъем 6,35 мм.


                          43
Порт USB-B 2.0 позволяет подключить контроллер к
компьютеру.


Кнопка POWER позволяет включать и выключать
контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7.


Разъем     для    подключения      блока    питания
позволяет подключить кабель питания и включить
контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 в электрическую
розетку с помощью переходника.


Выход для наушников (выход 3-4) позволяет
подключить наушники для мониторинга треков.
Форматы:      стереоразъем    мини-джек    3,5 мм   и
стандартный стереоразъем 6,35 мм.




                         44
Выдвиньте     четыре   выдвижные    ножки,    чтобы
приподнять контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 и
проложить под ним кабели.




− Перед транспортировкой контроллера DJControl
  Inpulse    T7   выдвижные   ножки   необходимо
  сложить.
− Ножки контроллера DJControl Inpulse T7 также
  следует сложить, если он не используется.
− Если контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 стоит на
  выдвижных ножках, не применяйте к нему вес
  более 5 кг или силу более 50 Н.




                        45
 4.       Установка

Подключение
 1. Подключите       блок     питания      к       контроллеру
   DJControl Inpulse T7.
 2. Подключите питающий кабель к блоку питания и
   вставьте его в розетку.
 3. Подключите USB-кабель к контроллеру DJControl
   Inpulse T7 и к компьютеру.
 4. Нажмите       кнопку     POWER        на       контроллере
   DJControl      Inpulse    T7.   При    нажатии       кнопка
   вдавливается внутрь.
 5. Убедитесь, что колонки отключены от питания
   или,    если     они      подключены        к     внешнему
   усилителю,       от     питания   отключен         внешний
   усилитель.       Подключите           входы        активных
   динамиков к Master-выходам для динамиков
   контроллера DJControl Inpulse T7 (2 RCA или 2
   XLR).
 6. Отрегулируйте           громкость      MASTER          до
   минимального уровня на контроллере DJControl
   Inpulse T7, после чего включите колонки.
 7. Наденьте наушники на шею (но не на уши),
   затем подключите их к разъему типа мини-джек
   3,5 мм или к стандартному разъему 6,35 мм.
 8. Подключите микрофон к входу для микрофона
   (при необходимости).

                             46
                  Питание
− Используйте только тот блок питания, который
 указан в руководстве пользователя.
− Используйте   блок        питания   только   с
 напряжением и частотой сети, указанными на
 заводской табличке блока питания.


                       47
− Можно        одновременно        использовать       оба
 формата выходов (XLR и RCA), например,
 подключив       одну     пару   выходов     к    системе
 звукоусиления,       а   вторую    к   колонкам      для
 мониторинга.
− При каждом подключении контроллера DJControl
 Inpulse       T7     к     компьютеру       загорается
 светодиодная подсветка под названием Vegas
 Mode. Vegas Mode работает в четырех фазах,
 что   позволяет        зажечь    все   светодиоды      и
 отобразить различные возможные цвета на
 пэдах     и    на   кольцах     подсветки       энкодеров
 BROWSER.




                           48
Загрузка программного обеспечения

DJUCED
 1. Перейдите       на          следующий          веб-сайт:
   https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Скачайте и установите приложение DJUCED®.
 3. Перейдите на следующий веб-сайт:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpu
   lset7/ (на английском языке).
 4. Скачайте и установите пакет драйверов для
   операционной системы вашего компьютера.
         o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
         o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
   На   компьютер     с    ОС     Windows®       необходимо
   установить      драйверы,       чтобы     использовать
   контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 в режиме ASIO,
   который      снижает    задержку    (в    сравнении     с
   режимом WASAPI) и в целом отличается более
   высокой стабильностью.
   Драйверы       также    позволяют        протестировать
   контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 и проверить
   версию прошивки как для Windows®, так и для
   macOS®.
 5. Запустите приложение DJUCED. Появится окно,
   указывающее,     что    ваш     контроллер      DJControl
   Inpulse T7    успешно     обнаружен       и     готов   к
   использованию.




                           49
 При   первом      запуске        приложения       DJUCED®
 программа      проведет          вас      через      процесс
 подключения наушников и активных колонок (или,
 при отсутствии колонок, позволит использовать
 динамики,    встроенные      в         компьютер).    Перед
 началом работы выполните пошаговые инструкции
 на экране.


Настройки звука:

В DJUCED®, чтобы изменить настройки звуковой
карты, щелкните значок шестеренки                  в верхней
правой части экрана. Откроется меню «Настройки».
Перейдите на вкладку Audio (Аудио), чтобы выбрать
звуковую карту и назначить выходы для наушников и
колонок.


Стандартные настройки для Windows®:
  − Audio device (Аудиоустройство): DJControl Inpulse
    T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Выход):
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                             50
Стандартные настройки для macOS®:
  − Audio     device   (Аудиоустройство):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Выход):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Перейдите      на      следующий        веб-сайт:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Скачайте и установите Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Перейдите на следующий веб-сайт:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (на английском языке).
 4. Скачайте и установите пакет драйверов для
   операционной системы вашего компьютера.
         o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
         o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    На компьютер с ОС Windows® необходимо
    установить    драйверы,   чтобы    использовать
    контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 в режиме ASIO,
    который снижает задержку (в сравнении с
    режимом WASAPI) и в целом отличается более
    высокой стабильностью.
    Драйверы     также   позволяют    протестировать
    контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 и проверить
    версию прошивки как для Windows®, так и для
    macOS®.




                         52
В состав комплекта Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
входит лицензия на Serato DJ Lite, но не входит
лицензия на Serato DJ Pro.
Лицензия на Serato DJ Lite предоставляется без
ограничения по времени.
При установке Serato DJ Pro вместо Serato DJ Lite,
Serato DJ Pro будет работать с контроллером
DJControl Inpulse T7 в течение пробного периода.
Если вы решите и далее использовать Serato DJ
Pro, то по окончании пробного периода вам нужно
будет приобрести лицензию на Serato DJ Pro.




                       53
    5.      Творческая                работа               с
     миксами
Есть несколько способов разнообразить ваш микс.

Режимы и пэды

Пэды

В    приложении     DJUCED        пэды   1-8   выполняют
действия,         соответствующие           подключенным
режимам.

В Serato DJ Lite пэды 1-4 выполняют действия,
соответствующие подключенным режимам. Пэды 5-8
выполняют следующие действия:
    − Пэд 5 — Reverse (обратное воспроизведение)
    − Пэд 6 — перемотка назад
    − Пэд 7 — перемотка вперед
    − Пэд    8—    Censor.   Это    действие        позволяет
     воспроизводить трек в обратном направлении,
     пока пэд удерживается нажатым. Как только вы
     отпускаете          пэд,             воспроизведение
     возобновляется     с    того    места,     в    котором
     находился бы трек, если бы воспроизведение
     просто продолжалось в обычном режиме. Так
     можно маскировать нецензурную лексику в
     песне.



                             54
Привязка режимов к пэдам зависит от программного
обеспечения:


Режимы DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1         Hot Cue     Hot Cue         Hot Cue

   2     Loop Roll      Auto Loop       Auto Loop
   3         Stems        Stems           Stems
   4         Sampler     Sampler         Sampler
   5      TonePlay             –         Pitch Play
   6         PadFX             –         Loop Roll
   7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
   8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Лицензия на Serato DJ Pro в комплект устройства
не входит.




                          55
Режим Hot Cue

Точка Hot Cue — это маркер (как закладка), который
вы можете поместить в трек, чтобы легко найти этот
момент в треке снова и мгновенно вернуться к нему
впоследствии.


В DJUCED можно установить не более восьми
точек Hot Cue в каждом треке.


В Serato DJ Lite можно установить не более четырех
точек Hot Cue в каждом треке.
В Serato DJ Pro можно установить не более восьми
точек Hot Cue в каждом треке.


  1. Чтобы перейти в режим Hot Cue, нажмите кнопку
    HOT CUE 1. Индикатор кнопки HOT CUE 1 будет
    светиться, пока режим активирован.
  2. Чтобы поставить точку Hot Cue, нажмите на пэд.
  3. Чтобы воспроизвести трек с точки Hot Cue,
    нажмите пэд, соответствующий нужной вам
    точке.
  4. Чтобы удалить точку Hot Cue, одновременно
    нажмите SHIFT и пэд.




                        56
Режим Loop




В    DJUCED этот режим соответствует режиму
Loop     Roll.   При   наложении    петли      курсор
воспроизведения деки продолжает двигаться в
фоновом режиме. Когда вы отключаете петлю,
воспроизведение возобновляется с того места, в
котором      находился     бы   трек,   если      бы
воспроизведение продолжалось.
В Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro этот режим
соответствует режиму Auto Loop.


Петля — это часть трека, которая повторяется при
воспроизведении.


    1. Чтобы перейти в режим Loop, нажмите LOOP 2.
      Индикатор кнопки LOOP 2 будет светиться, пока
      режим активирован.


В DJUCED:
    2. Чтобы применить петлю, нажмите и удерживайте
      пэд.
    3. Чтобы отключить петлю, отпустите пэд.


В Serato DJ Lite:
    2. Чтобы применить петлю, нажмите пэд.
    3. Чтобы отключить петлю, нажмите пэд еще раз.
                          57
Длина петли:

  Дека 1 / Дека 2   DJUCED      Serato DJ Lite

      Пэд 1         1/16 удара      1 удар
      Пэд 2          ⅛ удара        2 удара
      Пэд 3          ¼ удара        4 удара
      Пэд 4          ½ удара       8 ударов
      Пэд 5          1 удар            -
      Пэд 6          2 удара           -
      Пэд 7          4 удара           -
      Пэд 8         8 ударов           -




                      58
Режим Stems

Режим Stems позволяет разделить трек на четыре
партии (вокал и инструменты) — их и называют
«stems».


  1. Чтобы перейти в режим Stems, нажмите STEMS
    3. Индикатор кнопки STEMS 3 будет продолжать
    светиться.
  2. Пэды с 1 по 4 соответствуют четырем партиям
    stem.    Чтобы     остановить   воспроизведение
    партии stem, нажмите пэд с ее номером.
    Индикатор пэда выключится.
  3. Чтобы возобновить воспроизведение партии
    stem, снова нажмите пэд. Индикатор пэда
    включится.


Stems:

     Дека 1 / Дека 2                 Stem

            Пэд 1                    Вокал
            Пэд 2                   Мелодия
            Пэд 3                    Басы
            Пэд 4                   Ударные




                          59
При   первом      включении     stems     для   трека
разделение     не    всегда     происходит      сразу.
Программа    DJ     может     несколько    мгновений
анализировать трек и генерировать различные
партии (вокал, мелодия, бас, ударные).


Не забудьте оставить достаточно времени, чтобы
программа успела разделить stems и начать их
воспроизведение. Как только разные партии для
функции stems сгенерированы, воспроизведение
stems начинается мгновенно.


Для работы в режиме Stems требуется мощный
компьютер.




                        60
Режим Sampler

Сэмпл — это короткий звуковой фрагмент, который
воспроизводится поверх звучащего в данный момент
трека.   Он       может   воспроизводиться   однократно
(jingle) или повторяться (в виде петли).


В DJUCED пэды с 1 по 8 позволяют воспроизводить
восемь сэмплов, расположенных на первых двух
строках многослойного сэмплера.
Чтобы открыть многослойный сэмплер, выберите
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers в выпадающем меню
в верхней левой части экрана DJUCED.


В Serato DJ Lite пэды с 1 по 4 позволяют
воспроизводить сэмплы.
Чтобы открыть панель сэмплов в Serato DJ Lite,
щелкните      .


  1. Чтобы перейти в режим Sampler, нажмите
    SAMPLER 4. Индикатор кнопки SAMPLER 4
    будет светиться, пока режим активен.
  2. Чтобы воспроизвести сэмпл, нажмите пэд.
  3. Чтобы        остановить   воспроизведение   сэмпла,
    одновременно               нажмите     SHIFT      и
    соответствующий пэд.




                               61
Режим 5




В   Serato     DJ   Lite   не       предусмотрен   режим 5
(TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro в сочетании с плагином Pitch 'n Time
позволяет      пользоваться         режимом    Pitch   Play,
который работает по тому же принципу, что и
режим TonePlay.


В приложении DJUCED режим 5 соответствует
режиму TonePlay. Этот режим позволяет менять тон
воспроизведения точки Hot Cue.


 1. Включите режим Hot Cue, затем выберите точку
    Hot Cue.
 2. Чтобы      перейти     в    режим 5,      одновременно
    нажмите SHIFT и HOT CUE 1. При этом кнопка
    HOT CUE 1 начнет мигать.
 3. Чтобы изменить тон точки Hot Cue, нажмите
    нужный пэд (2-8).
 4. Чтобы вернуться к исходному тону, нажмите
    пэд 1.




                               62
Изменение тона:

    Дека 1 / Дека 2            Тон

        Пэд 1              Исходный тон
        Пэд 2                  +1
        Пэд 3                  +2
        Пэд 4                  +3
        Пэд 5                  -1
        Пэд 6                  -2
        Пэд 7                  -3
        Пэд 8                  -4




                      63
Режим 6




В Serato DJ Lite режим 6 отсутствует.


В приложении DJUCED режим 6 соответствует
режиму PadFX. В этом режиме можно управлять
эффектами на панели эффектов с помощью пэдов.
Эффект — это, например, фильтр или комбинация
фильтров, применяемых к треку для изменения его
звучания (эхо, реверберация и т. д.).


Чтобы отобразить панель эффектов, щелкните       .


  1. Чтобы   перейти    в    режим 6,   одновременно
    нажмите SHIFT и LOOP 2. При этом кнопка
    LOOP 2 начнет мигать.
  2. Чтобы выполнить действие, нажмите на пэд.
  3. Чтобы      отключить        эффект,    нажмите
    соответствующий пэд (пэды 1-3).




                            64
Возможные действия:

 Дека 1 / Дека             Эффекты

    Пэд 1        Эффект 1 из панели эффектов
    Пэд 2        Эффект 2 из панели эффектов
    Пэд 3        Эффект 3 из панели эффектов
    Пэд 4        Отображает/скрывает панель
    Пэд 5         Меняет эффект 1 на панели
    Пэд 6         Меняет эффект 2 на панели
    Пэд 7         Меняет эффект 3 на панели
    Пэд 8                     -




                      65
Режим 7




В DJUCED режим 7 соответствует режиму Slicer
Loop. В Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro режим 7
соответствует режиму Manual Loop.


В DJUCED режим 7 соответствует режиму Slicer
Loop. Этот режим позволяет разрезать активную
петлю на восемь секций.


 1. Чтобы   перейти   в    режим   7   (Slicer    Loop),
   одновременно нажмите SHIFT и STEMS 3. При
   этом кнопка STEMS 3 начнет мигать.
 2. Чтобы зациклить воспроизведение отдельной
   секции, нажмите и удерживайте пэд с ее
   номером.
 3. Чтобы   остановить    воспроизведение        секции,
   отпустите пэд.




                          66
В    Serato     DJ   Lite   и   Serato   DJ    Pro   режим 7
соответствует режиму Manual Loop. В этом режиме
петлю можно включить вручную.


    1. Чтобы перейти в режим 7 (Manual Loop),
     одновременно нажмите SHIFT и STEMS 3. При
     этом кнопка STEMS 3 начнет мигать.
    2. Чтобы выполнить действие, нажмите на пэд.


Возможные действия:

     Дека 1/2                        Эффекты

      Пэд 1          Первое нажатие: установка точки
                               входа (IN)
                     Второе нажатие: изменение точки
                               входа (IN)

      Пэд 2          Первое нажатие: установка точки
                              выхода (OUT)
                     Второе нажатие: изменение точки
                              выхода (OUT)

      Пэд 3            Включение/выключение петли
      Пэд 4                 Перемещает курсор
                     воспроизведения к началу петли и
                       воспроизводит петлю (Reloop)
     Энкодер          Увеличение/уменьшение длины
    AUTOLOOP                      петли




                                67
Режим 8




В приложении DJUCED режим 8 соответствует
режиму BeatJump. В Serato DJ Lite и Serato DJ Pro
режим 8 соответствует режиму Scratch Banks.


В приложении DJUCED режим 8 соответствует
режиму BeatJump. Этот режим позволяет сделать
точный прыжок по треку.


 1. Чтобы включить режим 8 (BeatJump), нажмите
   одновременно SHIFT и SAMPLER 4. При этом
   кнопка SAMPLER 4 начнет мигать.
 2. Чтобы совершить прыжок, нажмите нужный пэд.


Длина прыжка:

     Дека 1 / Дека 2                Прыжок

          Пэд 1                 На 1 удар назад
          Пэд 2                 На 1 удар вперед
          Пэд 3                 На 2 удара назад
          Пэд 4                На 2 удара вперед
          Пэд 5                 На 4 удара назад
          Пэд 6                На 4 удара вперед
          Пэд 7                На 8 ударов назад
          Пэд 8                На 8 ударов вперед
                          68
В     Serato    DJ     Lite      и    Serato     DJ    Pro     режим 8
соответствует режиму Scratch Banks. Этот режим
позволяет мгновенно загрузить скретч-сэмпл на деку
для    скретча       на        моторизованном          диске    вместо
воспроизводимого в данный момент трека, а затем
быстро вернуться к воспроизводимому треку.
Чтобы открыть панель скретч-сэмплов в Serato DJ
Lite, щелкните         .


    1. Чтобы     включить            режим 8     (Scratch      Banks),
      нажмите одновременно SHIFT и SAMPLER 4.
      При этом кнопка SAMPLER 4 начнет мигать.
    2. Чтобы воспроизвести скретч-сэмпл, нажмите
      пэд.
    3. Чтобы     остановить           воспроизведение          скретч-
      сэмпла               и         вернуться          к       ранее
      воспроизводившемуся                 треку,       одновременно
      нажмите SHIFT и соответствующий пэд.


Сэмплы:

       Дека 1 / Дека 2                             Сэмпл

               Пэд 1                                  Ahh!
               Пэд 2                             Hey You!
               Пэд 3                               Oww!
               Пэд 4                               Yeah!




                                     69
Скретчинг
Скретчинг — это создание звуковых эффектов в
треке путем вращения моторизованного диска.


Поместите указательный палец на моторизованный
диск и совершайте короткие быстрые движения
вправо и влево.


Вы можете повторить такой скретч несколько раз,
чтобы создать ритм.




 − Перед       скретчингом        или     микшированием
   убедитесь, что между моторизованным диском и
   виниловой пластинкой находится войлочный
   слип-мат.
 − Не   прилагайте      усилий          при   размещении
   виниловой пластинки на моторизованном диске.
   В    противном     случае        можно      повредить
   центральную часть виниловой пластинки.




                             70
Фильтры
Применение фильтра позволяет ослабить те или
иные частоты в треке.


  − Ослабление высоких частот (высокочастотный
    фильтр или фильтр высоких частот): поверните
    ручку фильтра (FILTER) влево.
  − Ослабление    низких     частот   (низкочастотный
    фильтр или фильтр низких частот): поверните
    ручку фильтра (FILTER) вправо.




                        71
  6.     Многоканальная                     звуковая
    карта
В контроллере DJControl Inpulse T7 есть встроенная
многоканальная     звуковая     карта,      позволяющая
воспроизводить микс на колонках для аудитории
(через   Master-выход     для   колонок),      мониторить
следующий трек, который вы готовите, в наушниках
(через   выход    для    наушников)    и    пользоваться
микрофоном       или    устройством,     оборудованным
выходом      линейного       уровня,       в     качестве
аудиоисточника.




                           72
Master-выход для колонок (выход 1-
2)
Активные колонки должны быть подключены к
одному   из    двух   Master-выходов   для   колонок,
расположенных на задней панели DJ-контроллера.




Можно одновременно использовать оба формата
выходов, например, подключить одну пару выходов
к системе звукоусиления, а вторую к колонкам для
мониторинга.


                          73
Выход для наушников (выход 3-4)
Наушники должны быть подключены к одному из
двух выходов для наушников        , расположенных на
передней панели DJ-контроллера.




По   умолчанию     при   каждом    подключении   DJ-
контроллера выход 3-4 назначается выходом для
наушников, чтобы вы могли работать с различными
приложениями для диджеинга, в том числе с
DJUCED® и Serato DJ Lite.


Однако если вы хотите использовать выход для
наушников    для     прослушивания      музыки   на
компьютере, например, в приложении iTunes, вам
нужно назначить выходом для наушников выход 1-2.
Для этого нажмите кнопку      , расположенную под
измерителем уровня громкости MASTER.
                       74
Мы не рекомендуем подключать одновременно две
пары наушников (т. е. одну к выходному разъему
типа мини-джек 3,5 мм, а другую — к стандартному
выходному разъему 6,35 мм). Если у обеих пар
наушников разное сопротивление, то у них на
выходе будет разная громкость.




                       75
Вход для микрофона
Микрофон должен быть подключен к входу для
микрофона, расположенному на задней панели DJ-
контроллера.    Вход   для   микрофона   является
симметричным.




                        76
Можно подключить микрофон как с симметричным,
так и с несимметричным входом. Микрофон с
симметричным        входом    обеспечивает   более
качественное и мощное звучание с меньшим
уровнем шума от дыхания. Если микрофон с
симметричным входом подключается с помощью
небалансного кабеля, это негативно скажется на
качестве получаемого с микрофона звука.


                  Балансный кабель

     Tip (Наконечник)
       Ring (Кольцо)

     Sleeve (Штекер)




                 Небалансный кабель


     Tip (Наконечник)


     Sleeve (Штекер)




                         77
  7.     Совместимость

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Этот     DJ-контроллер   относится     к   категории
самонастраивающихся устройств и может работать с
программой DJUCED без драйверов на любом ПК
или Mac, поскольку соответствует стандартам USB
Audio и USB MIDI.


ASIO       и    панель        управления         для
Windows®
Чтобы использовать контроллер DJControl Inpulse T7 с
приложением Serato DJ Lite, необходимо установить
драйверы ASIO. Драйверы ASIO доступны здесь:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpuls
et7/.

Если вы используете DJUCED, вы также можете
загрузить драйверы ASIO — это поможет снизить
задержку на вашем ПК.

Вместе с драйверами ASIO устанавливается панель
управления — ее можно найти в панели задач на ПК
или                      в                      папке
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ        Console
Series\cpl2\.   С   помощью    этой   панели    можно
настраивать различные параметры ASIO, включая
размер буфера и задержку.

                         78
Для настройки параметров ASIO:
  − Для размера буфера ASIO выберите размер 4
    или 8 мс.
  − Запустите приложение, с которым вы работаете
    (например, DJUCED), и выберите драйвер
    DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO):




После того как приложение начнет использовать
драйвер ASIO, настройки ASIO уже нельзя будет
изменить на панели управления. Это абсолютно
нормально и указывает на то, что драйвер ASIO
используется.




                        79
Воспользуйтесь своим программным обеспечением и
внимательно       послушайте,   нет   ли   возможных
звуковых помех или искажений (щелчков, хлопков)
или     задержек.   При   возникновении    помех   или
искажений необходимо увеличить размер буфера
для устранения проблем.


Закройте приложение и отрегулируйте буфер ASIO
на одно значение за раз:
  − Уменьшите размер буфера, чтобы уменьшить
      задержку.
  − Увеличьте размер буфера, если вы заметили
      помехи или искажения в аудио.


Вам нужно будет повторять эту процедуру, пока не
найдете оптимальный размер буфера для своей
системы.


Драйверы доступны здесь:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                           80
Обновление прошивки
В       DJ-контроллере       предусмотрен         режим
автоматического обновления прошивки. Для этого
необходимо     установить        драйверы    Hercules   и
выполнить    инструкции     на     экране.   Обновление
прошивки произойдет автоматически.


Драйверы доступны здесь:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


На панели управления можно также посмотреть
информацию об устройстве и версию драйверов,
установленных на компьютере — для этого нужно
перейти на вкладку ABOUT (ОБ УСТРОЙСТВЕ).
Будьте готовы сообщить эту информацию, если вам
необходимо    связаться     со    службой    технической
поддержки Hercules.




                          81
Тестирование DJ-контроллера на
панели управления
В разделе ABOUT (ОБ УСТРОЙСТВЕ) на панели
управления       DJControl        Inpulse        T7      можно
протестировать     звук      DJ-контроллера,          элементы
управления    параметрами          MIDI,    освещение         и
моторизованные диски.


Для доступа к панели управления перейдите в
следующую           папку:         C:\Program             Files\
DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.

  1. Проверка качества звука

Чтобы проверить, воспроизводит ли аудиоинтерфейс
контроллера   DJControl        Inpulse      T7    звук     (без
приложения    для     диджеинга),        щелкните        значок
колонки. Во время теста значок становится зеленым,
а программа воспроизводит звук через Master-
выходы для колонок и наушников.




                             82
  2. Тестирование элементов управления
       параметрами MIDI

Чтобы проверить работу элементов управления
параметрами MIDI контроллера DJControl Inpulse T7
(без     приложения    для    диджеинга),   попробуйте
воспользоваться кнопками или другими элементами
управления, которые вы хотите проверить. Если
значок    разъема     DIN    становится   зеленым,   это
означает, что команда параметру MIDI принимается,
а кнопка или другой элемент управления работают
правильно.




                             83
  3. Проверка освещения

Чтобы проверить работу светодиодов контроллера
DJControl    Inpulse   T7    (без   приложения     для
диджеинга), нажмите на значок лампочки, чтобы
загорелись   светодиоды      контроллера.   Во   время
проверки значок становится зеленым, а светодиоды
контроллера загораются.




Также все светодиоды контроллера            DJControl
Inpulse T7 можно зажечь, одновременно нажав
кнопки IN и OUT на обеих деках.




                            84
  4. Проверка моторизованных дисков

Чтобы проверить, работают ли моторизованные
диски   контроллера       DJControl   Inpulse   T7     (без
приложения   для    диджеинга),       щелкните       значок
платтера 1 или 2. Во время проверки значки
соответствующего диска и соединителя DIN светятся
зеленым   цветом,     а    моторизованный       диск    на
контроллере приходит в движение (т. е. вращается).


Проверка моторизованного диска 1:




Проверка моторизованного диска 2:




                            85
 8.    Демонстрационный режим
Этот   режим   доступен        при   подключении   DJ-
контроллера к источнику питания через USB и
используется, например, в магазинах. Контроллер в
этом режиме не работает, а только демонстрирует
свои функции: различные индикаторы включаются по
очереди и эта последовательность повторяется.




                          86
  9.      ЧАСТО                 ЗАДАВАЕМЫЕ
    ВОПРОСЫ

  1. Нет звука в наушниках.
Убедитесь, что подключили наушники к порту на
передней     панели       DJ-контроллера,    поскольку
контроллер    оснащен      многоканальной    звуковой
картой,    заранее    настроенной     для   работы   с
приложениями DJUCED® и Serato DJ Lite.
По умолчанию при первом запуске приложения обе
кнопки мониторинга включены. Затем вы можете
выбрать отдельную деку для прослушивания в
наушниках     или     же     нажать     кнопку       ,
расположенную       под   измерителем   уровня   звука
MASTER, чтобы послушать результат микширования
треков.




                           87
  2. Звук в наушниках искажается
       или слишком тихий.
Убедитесь, что ваши наушники оснащены разъемом
TRS (стандартные наушники), а не TRRS (наушники
+ микрофон).


  Tip (наконечник)               Tip (наконечник)
    Ring (кольцо)                Ring (кольцо)
                                 Ring (кольцо)
  Sleeve (штекер)
                                 Sleeve (штекер)




Разъемы TRRS не совместимы с контроллером
DJControl Inpulse T7.




                        88
  3. Нет звука на колонках.
Убедитесь, что колонки подключены к разъемам RCA
или   XLR    на     задней      панели      DJ-контроллера,
поскольку       данный              контроллер      оснащен
многоканальной           звуковой        картой,       заранее
настроенной для работы с приложениями DJUCED®
и Serato DJ Lite.


Чтобы проверить (без приложения для диджеинга),
воспроизводит       ли    аудиоинтерфейс         контроллера
DJControl Inpulse T7 звук, можно вывести на экран
панель управления DJ-контроллера. Перейдите на
вкладку     ABOUT        (ОБ   УСТРОЙСТВЕ),        а     затем
щелкните значок колонки. Когда воспроизводится
звук, значок становится зеленым.




                               89
 4. Нет         звука              на     динамиках
        ноутбука.
Ваш DJ-котроллер оснащен заранее настроенной
звуковой картой. Если вы хотите использовать
динамики,    встроенные        в     ноутбук,    сделайте
следующее:
  − В приложении DJUCED® — откройте настройки и
   установите    флажок        SEND        MASTER      TO
   COMPUTER           SPEAKERS            (ОТПРАВЛЯТЬ
   МАСТЕР-СИГНАЛ                   НА           ДИНАМИКИ
   КОМПЬЮТЕРА).




  − В    приложении   Serato       DJ   Lite —    откройте
   настройки, перейдите на вкладку Audio (Аудио) и
   установите    флажок        Use      Laptop    Speakers
   (Использовать динамики ноутбука).




                          90
 5. Нет звука в наушниках или на
     динамиках ноутбука.
По умолчанию звук поступает на Master-выход для
колонок и на выход для наушников. Поэтому
отсутствие звука на динамиках ноутбука — это
нормально.


Если вы хотите использовать динамики, встроенные
в ноутбук, сделайте следующее:
  − В приложении DJUCED® — откройте настройки и
    установите   флажок      SEND     MASTER       TO
    COMPUTER        SPEAKERS          (ОТПРАВЛЯТЬ
    МАСТЕР-СИГНАЛ            НА         ДИНАМИКИ
    КОМПЬЮТЕРА).       Вы    должны     подключить
    наушники к контроллеру DJControl Inpulse T7.




                        91
  − В     приложении     Serato     DJ   Lite —   откройте
    настройки, перейдите на вкладку Audio (Аудио) и
    установите     флажок         Use    Laptop   Speakers
    (Использовать динамики ноутбука). Вы должны
    подключить наушники к контроллеру DJControl
    Inpulse T7.




Чтобы проверить (без приложения для диджеинга),
воспроизводит     ли    аудиоинтерфейс        контроллера
DJControl Inpulse T7 звук, можно вывести на экран
панель управления DJ-контроллера. Перейдите на
вкладку    ABOUT       (ОБ   УСТРОЙСТВЕ),         а   затем
щелкните значок колонки. Когда воспроизводится
звук, значок становится зеленым.




                             92
  6. У меня возникли проблемы с
      качеством звука в ОС Windows®.

Слишком             низкая            громкость
воспроизводимой дорожки

Громкость Master в приложении для диджеинга не
зависит от регуляторов громкости на DJ-контроллере.
Поэтому если громкость Master в приложении для
диджеинга низкая, громкость выхода Master также
будет низкой.

Проверьте громкость приложения для диджеинга и
при необходимости увеличьте ее.

  − В приложении DJUCED — используйте кнопку
    громкости, расположенную на панели в верхней
    правой части окна.




  − В приложении Serato DJ Lite — используйте
    кнопку громкости, расположенную на панели в
    верхней правой части окна.




                        93
Слишком низкая громкость в наушниках

В приложении Serato DJ Lite — откройте настройки,
перейдите на вкладку Audio (Аудио) и снимите
флажок    Use   Laptop    Speakers   (Использовать
динамики ноутбука).




                         94
Если вам нужно, чтобы флажок Use Laptop Speakers
(Использовать      динамики         ноутбука)     остался
установленным, выберите для встроенной звуковой
карты        компьютера          значение       «Динамики
компьютера».
 1. Закройте приложение Serato DJ Lite.
 2. Зайдите в настройки Windows и перейдите в
      раздел System (Система), а затем Sound (Звук).
 3. В разделе Output (Вывод) выберите встроенную
      звуковую   карту    компьютера.       DJ-контроллер
      перестанет использоваться в качестве вывода.




Возможно, ОС Windows® использует DJ-контроллер в
качестве     звуковой    карты    ОС   Windows®.    Если
оставить эту настройку, то с помощью параметра
Use     Laptop   Speakers    (Использовать       динамики
ноутбука) можно вывести выход Master на 4-
канальный выход DJ-контроллера (выход Master +
наушники).




                            95
Нечеткий звук

В приложении DJUCED®:
Рекомендуется использовать аудиоустройство ASIO.
При использовании устройства WASAPI качество
звука обычно бывает высоким. Однако при этом
может увеличиться задержка, а звук может быть
нечетким.


Зайдите в настройки, перейдите на     вкладку Audio
(Аудио) и выберите значение DJControl Inpulse T7
ASIO (ASIO) в списке Audio device (Аудиоустройство).




В приложении Serato DJ Lite:
Откройте настройки, перейдите на вкладку Audio
(Аудио) и снимите флажок       Use Laptop Speakers
(Использовать динамики ноутбука).




                        96
  7. Не        получается              подключить
       мультимедийные                  колонки        к
       DJControl Inpulse T7.
Если   разъемы    ваших      колонок    отличаются    от
разъемов   на    DJControl     Inpulse T7,   вы   можете
использовать переходник с двух RCA на разъем типа
мини-джек 3,5 мм (не входит в комплект), переходник
с двух XLR на стандартный разъем 6,35 мм (не
входит в комплект) или любой другой переходник,
соответствующий формату ваших колонок.
Вы также можете подключить колонки к выходу для
наушников и направить выход 1-2 на выход 3-4,
нажав кнопку      , расположенную под измерителем
уровня звука MASTER.



  8. Совместим               ли        контроллер
       DJControl Inpulse T7 с iPad или
       iPhone?
Нет, DJControl Inpulse T7 не совместим ни с iPad, ни
с iPhone. Он работает только с ПК или Mac.




                          97
 9. Как          подключить                      DJControl
       Inpulse T7 к порту USB-C или к
       порту Thunderbolt 3?
Вы можете подключить DJControl Inpulse T7 к порту
USB-C или к порту Thunderbolt 3 тремя разными
способами:
 − С помощью адаптера (USB-C [штекер] или
   Thunderbolt      3       к     USB-A    [гнездо])   между
   компьютером          и       DJ-контроллером.    Обратите
   внимание, что некоторые недорогие адаптеры не
   будут корректно работать, так как они отключают
   часть источника питания.
 − С     помощью             док-станции      (USB-C       или
   Thunderbolt 3)       между         компьютером      и   DJ-
   контроллером.            Убедитесь,     что    док-станция
   имеет выделенный источник питания, так как
   док-станции, которая заряжается только через
   порт USB-C или Thunderbolt 3, может не хватать
   питания.
 − Заменив прилагаемый кабель USB кабелем
   USB-C или кабелем Thunderbolt 3 для порта
   USB-B 2.0.




                                 98
ТЕХНИЧЕСКАЯ ПОДДЕРЖКА
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Товарные знаки
Intel® и Intel Core™ являются зарегистрированными товарными
знаками Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 является зарегистрированным товарным
знаком Microsoft Corporation в США и других странах.
Mac®      и   macOS®       являются      товарными       знаками        Apple   Inc.,
зарегистрированными в США и других странах.
Serato,       Serato     DJ    Lite      и      Serato   DJ       Pro     являются
зарегистрированными товарными знаками Serato Audio Research
Limited.
Бренд DJUCED и графические элементы DJUCED являются
собственностью Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO является товарным знаком Steinberg Media Technologies
GmbH.
Все    остальные         товарные       знаки    и    торговые     наименования
настоящим        признаются         в     этом       документе      и     являются
собственностью           их   владельцев.            Иллюстрации        могут     не
соответствовать внешнему виду или функциям конкретного изделия.
Содержание             документации,         конструкция      и         технические
характеристики изделия могут быть изменены без предварительного
уведомления и зависят от каждой отдельной страны.




                                         100
Авторские права
Никакая часть этого руководства не может быть воспроизведена,
обобщена, передана, переписана, сохранена в поисковой системе
или переведена на любой язык или компьютерный язык, в любой
форме    или   любым   способом,   электронным,   механическим,
магнитным, ручным, посредством фотокопирования, записи или
иное, без явного письменного согласия корпорации Guillemot
Corporation S.A.




                             101
DJUCED®              и      Serato          DJ    Lite —
лицензионное                      соглашение               с
конечным пользователем
Внимательно прочтите Лицензионное соглашение, отображаемое во
время установки DJUCED® и Serato DJ Lite.




                              102
Uživatelský manuál
                             OBSAH

1.   OBSAH BALENÍ ............................................ 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TECHNICKÉ SPECIFIKACE ....................... 10

3.   VLASTNOSTI ............................................... 13

     Přehled .............................................................13

     Decky................................................................14

     Mixování...........................................................32

     Konektory ........................................................43

4.   INSTALACE ................................................. 46

     Připojení ...........................................................46

     Stažení softwaru .............................................49

5.   OŽIVENÍ VAŠEHO MIXU ............................. 54

     Režimy a pady.................................................54

     Scratching .......................................................70

     Filtry..................................................................71
6.   VÍCEKANÁLOVÁ ZVUKOVÁ KARTA ........ 72

     Master výstup pro reproduktory

     (výstup 1-2) ......................................................73

     Výstup pro sluchátka (výstup 3-4)...............74

     Výstup pro mikrofon ......................................76

7.   KOMPATIBILITA ......................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO a Windows® ovládací panel ................78

     Aktualizace firmware .....................................81

     Testování DJ kontroléru v ovládacím

     panelu...............................................................82

8.   DEMO REŽIM............................................... 86

9.   NEJČASTĚJŠÍ DOTAZY ............................. 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 je plnohodnotný kontrolér
navržený tak, aby vám pomohl ovládat umění vinylových
gramofonů    díky   dvěma      motorizovaným       talířům,
výukovým videím a integraci softwaru DJUCED a
Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje licenci na
Serato DJ Lite, nikoli licenci na Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite lze používat bez časového omezení.
Pokud si místo Serato DJ Lite nainstalujete Serato DJ
Pro, bude Serato DJ Pro po dobu zkušební doby
spolupracovat s vaším DJControl Inpulse T7. Pokud
chcete po skončení této zkušební doby pokračovat v
používání aplikace Serato DJ Pro, musíte si zakoupit
licenci Serato DJ Pro.



                           4
K dispozici je celá řada videonávodů, které vám
pomohou naučit se mixovat s kontrolérem Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (v angličtině):
       o V DJUCED, kliknutím na ikonu    .
       o Na stránkách DJUCED.
  − YouTube kanál Hercules Audio (v angličtině).
  − The DJ Coach, s kurzy pořádanými DJ HAPA na
    Serato DJ Lite (v angličtině).




                           5
 1.    Obsah balení

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Dvě vinylové desky (7 palců / 17,8 cm)
 − Dvě plstěné podložky
 − Opletený USB kabel
 − Odnímatelný napájecí kabel
 − Napájecí adaptér
 − Návod k použití
 − Leták s informacemi o záruce




                          6
Na kontroléru Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 můžete
odstranit   ochranné   fólie   zakrývající   VU   metry.
Ochranné fólie můžete rovněž ponechat na místě,
protože nemají vliv na používání VU metrů.




                           7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Dvě vinylové desky (7 palců / 17,8 cm)
 − Dvě plstěné podložky
 − Dvě tenké plstěné podložky
 − Opletený kabel USB
 − Odnímatelný napájecí kabel
 − Napájecí adaptér
 − Taška na přenášení
 − Návod k použití
 − Záruční leták




Na   kontroléru    Hercules   DJControl   Inpulse   T7
Premium Edition můžete odstranit ochranné fólie
zakrývající VU metry. Ochranné fólie můžete také
ponechat na místě, protože nemají vliv na používání
VU metrů.




                          9
  2.    Technické specifikace
Systémové požadavky:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (v angličtině)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (v angličtině)


Audio výstupy:
           o Rozlišení = 24-bit
           o Vzorkovací frekvence = 44.1 kHz


Master výstupy pro reproduktory (výstup 1-2) pomocí:
  − Dvou konektorů RCA:
           o Maximální výstupní výkon = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Dvou konektorů XLR (symetrické):
           o Maximální výstupní výkon = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Výstup pro sluchátka (výstup 3-4) přes jeden 3,5 mm
stereofonní konektor mini-jack a jeden 6,35 mm
stereofonní konektor jack:
           o Maximální výstupní výkon = 5 dBU pro
               32Ω @ 1 kHz


Mikrofonní vstup přes jeden konektor 6,35 mm jack
(symetrický)
                             10
                       Napájení
− Používejte pouze napájecí zdroj uvedený v návodu
  k použití.
− Používejte   pouze    napájecí   zdroj   se   síťovým
  napětím a frekvencí uvedenými na typovém štítku
  zdroje.




                          11
                   Informace o napájení
  Publikované                Hodnota        Jednotka
   informace
   Název nebo          GUILLEMOT
ochranná známka    CORPORATION S.A.
     výrobce    414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
  Číslo podniku 2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
     Adresa               56910 Carentoir
                              Francie
   Identifikátor          A481-1852590D
     modelu
 Vstupní napětí              100 - 240         V
Vstupní frekvence             50 - 60         Hz
střídavého proudu

 Výstupní napětí                18.5         V DC
 Výstupní proud                 2.6            A

 Výstupní výkon                 47.9           W

Průměrná aktivní                87.8           %
   účinnost
   Účinnost při                 87.8           %
 nízkém zatížení
      (10%)
Spotřeba energie                0.10           W
  bez zatížení




                           12
 3.     Vlastnosti

Přehled




 1. Motorem poháněná plotna
 2. Tlačítka pro přenos (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Ovládání smyček (Loop)
 4. Ovládací prvky pro výběr skladby (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempo fader (Pitch fader)
 6. Pady a režimy
 7. Režimy přehrávání
 8. Monitoring,        hlasitosti   (Master,   Sluchátka   a
      Mikrofon) a Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixovací sekce (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixér (Crossfader, fadery hlasitosti)
 11. Efekty




                              13
Decky

  1. Motorizovaná plotna




Plstěná podložka: umístěná mezi motorovým talířem a
vinylovou deskou. Chrání vinylovou desku před třením o
talíř a snižuje vibrace při přehrávání desky.




 Před instalací vinylové desky musíte vždy dbát na to,
 abyste   na   motorizovaný      talíř   nasadili   plstěnou
 podložku.




                            14
Vinylová deska: umožňuje scratchovat, zrychlovat nebo
zpomalovat přehrávání a pohybovat se ve skladbě.
Linka na štítku vinylové desky je referenčním bodem (tj.
značkou) pro míchání a scratchování.


Provedená akce závisí na dvou kritériích:
  − přehrávání nebo pozastavení;
  − místo, kde se dotýkáte vinylové desky (vršek (top)
    nebo kroužek (ring)).


                            Vršek




  Kroužek




                            15
Akce vinylových desek se Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ
Pro:


   Přehrávání/         Motorizovaná
                                            Tlačítko SHIFT
   Pozastavení            plotna
       Přehrávání          Vršek                  -
                         Scratching
                                             Zmáčknout a
       Přehrávání      Vršek/Kroužek
                                               podržet
                    Rychlý pohyb ve stopě
       Přehrávání         Kroužek                 -
            Zrychlení nebo zpomalení přehrávání
   Pozastavení         Vršek/Kroužek              -
                    Pomalý pohyb ve stopě
                                             Zmáčknout a
   Pozastavení         Vršek/Kroužek
                                               podržet
                    Rychlý pohyb ve stopě




                            16
Akce vinylových desek s DJUCED:


   Přehrávání/      Motorizovaná
                                     Tlačítko SHIFT
   Pozastavení         plotna
    Přehrávání          Vršek                 -
                      Scratching
                                         Zmáčknout a
    Přehrávání      Vršek/Kroužek
                                           podržet
                 Rychlý pohyb ve stopě
    Přehrávání         Kroužek                -
         Zrychlení nebo zpomalení přehrávání
   Pozastavení         Kroužek                -
                 Pomalý pohyb ve stopě




                         17
Motorem poháněná plotna: pohání vinylovou desku,
která řídí přehrávání skladby a rychlost skladby podle
tempa nastaveného pomocí tempo faderu.


Když je funkce Beatmatch Guide zapnutá, vizuální
vodítka BEAT ALIGN ukazují směr, kterým je třeba
otáčet kroužkem (tj. okrajem) motorizované plotny,
abyste zarovnali beatové mřížky dvou stop. Pokud obě
červené šipky nesvítí, jsou beatové mřížky zarovnány.


Další informace o funkci Beatmatch Guide naleznete v
sekci Beatmatch Guide.




 Motorizaci talířů nelze vypnout.




 Když se motorizovaný talíř otáčí, nedržte jej zastavený
 rukou   příliš   dlouho,   abyste   nepoškodili   systém
 pohonu.
 Při nasazování vinylové desky na motorizovanou
 plotnu ji nenasazujte silou. Riskujete poškození středu
 vinylové desky




                             18
  2. Tlačítka pro přenos




SHIFT: kombinované ovládání. Například:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): zamkne hudební klíč
    skladby.
  − SHIFT + IN: v DJUCED®, dělí velikost aktivní
    smyčky dvěma.


SYNC: zapne nebo vypne automatickou synchronizaci
hodnot BPM (počet úderů za minutu) dvou stop.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o V      DJUCED:    udělá   z   decku    hlavní
        synchronizační deck (Master Sync).
      o V Serato DJ Lite: vypne synchronizaci na
        decku.




                          19
CUE: vloží do stopy Cue bod pro identifikaci konkrétního
okamžiku nebo přesune hlavu přehrávání na pozici Cue
bodu.
  − Pozastavení stopy: vloží Cue bod na místo, kde je
    stopa zastavena.
  − Přehrávání skladby: zastaví přehrávání skladby a
    přesune hlavu přehrávání na Cue bod.
        o V DJUCED, pokud nebyl definován žádný Cue
           bod, stisknutí tlačítka CUE zastaví přehrávání a
           umístí Cue bod na místo, kde se nachází hlava
           přehrávání.
        o V Serato DJ Lite, pokud nebyl definován žádný
           Cue   bod,    stisknutí   tlačítka   CUE   zastaví
           přehrávání a umístí Cue bod na začátek skladby.
  − CUE + PLAY: přesune hlavu přehrávání na Cue
    bod a přehraje skladbu od tohoto bodu.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
        o V DJUCED: přesune přehrávací hlavu na
           začátek stopy a zastaví přehrávání.
        o V Serato DJ Lite: přesune hlavu přehrávání na
           začátek skladby a spustí přehrávání.


Přehrávání/Pozastavení: přehrává nebo pozastavuje
skladbu.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: v aplikaci Serato DJ Lite přesune
    hlavu přehrávání na Cue bod a přehraje skladbu od
    této značky.

                              20
  3. Ovládání smyček




AUTOLOOP enkodér:
  − Stisknutím    enkodéru:     zapnete   nebo   vypnete
    přehrávání smyčky.
  − Otáčením enkodéru: nastavujete délku smyčky.


IN/OUT: zapne smyčku výběrem bodu in (IN) a bodu out
(OUT).
Když je smyčka aktivní (tj. povolená):
  − Stiskněte tlačítko IN (tlačítko bliká) a otáčením
    motorizovaného talíře přesuňte začátek smyčky.
  − Stiskněte tlačítko OUT (tlačítko bliká) a otáčením
    motorizovaného talíře přesuňte konec smyčky.
Smyčku ukončíte stisknutím enkodéru AUTOLOOP.
V DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: dělí velikost aktivní smyčky dvěma.
  − SHIFT + OUT: násobí velikost aktivní smyčky
    dvěma.
  − Dlouhé stisknutí tlačítka IN: umožňuje smyčku o
    čtyřech úderech.



                           21
  4. Ovládací prvky pro výběr skladby




BROWSER enkodér*: umožňuje procházet hudební
knihovnu a seznam skladeb otáčením enkodéru doleva
(nahoru) nebo doprava (dolů).
Stisknutím enkodéru vyberete složky a načtete vybranou
skladbu na cílový deck.


Podsvícený kroužek:
  − V DJUCED zobrazuje úroveň energie hlavní stopy
    pro tempo.
  − V Serato DJ Lite ukazuje rytmus. Světlo bliká v
    rytmu skladby:
           o Červená: označuje první úder.
           o Modrá: označuje tři následující údery.




                          22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − V DJUCED zobrazí panel s návrhy nejlepších
    nadcházejících skladeb pro váš mix.
    Chcete-li      procházet     seznamem     navrhovaných
    skladeb, otočte enkodérem BROWSER.
    Chcete-li      vybrat      stopu,   stiskněte   enkodér
    BROWSER. Již nahraná skladba v tomto decku
    musí být pozastavena.
    Stiskněte      tlačítko   ASSIST./PREP.    a    otáčením
    enkodéru         nastavte       energetickou      úroveň
    navrhovaných skladeb.
  − V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite přidá právě přehrávanou
    skladbu do seznamu Prepare (Připravit).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: otevře panel Prepare
    (Připravit).


BACK*: umožňuje pohybovat se ve stromečkové
struktuře v DJUCED a Serato DJ Lite.
  − V aplikaci DJUCED se stisknutím klávesy SHIFT a
    klávesy BACK vrátíte do sloupce Knihovna.




* Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou totožné.
                          23
  5. Tempo fader




Tempo fader: nastaví rychlost přehrávání skladby
nastavením počtu BPM.
  − Pohyb nahoru: zpomaluje stopu.
  − Pohyb dolů: zrychluje stopu.
  − Tempo fader uprostřed: původní rychlost skladby.
    Svítí bílá LED dioda.


Když je funkce Beatmatch Guide zapnutá, vizuální
vodítka TEMPO ukazují, zda je třeba posunout tempo
fader nahoru nebo dolů, aby se skladba zpomalila nebo
zrychlila. Pokud jsou obě červené šipky vypnuté, je
tempo na daném decku totožné s tempem na druhém
decku.


Další informace o funkci Beatmatch Guide naleznete v
sekci Beatmatch Guide.



                            24
Pokud je v aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro
povolen režim SYNC, můžete stisknutím klávesy SHIFT
a současným pohybem tempo faderu posouvat hodnoty
tempo faderu při zachování amplitudy.


Například při stupnici tempa ±8 %, tedy 16% amplitudě,
můžete posouvat hodnoty tempo faderu tak, aby
pokrývaly rozsah od 0 % (maximum) do -16 %
(minimum), což stále znamená 16% amplitudu, přičemž -
8 % je uprostřed.




                          25
RANGE*: umožňuje změnit stupnici tempo faderů.
  − V DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
    ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − V Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): uzamkne hudební klíč
skladby.
Chcete-li se ujistit, že je hudební klíč uzamčen, stiskněte
klávesu SHIFT. Tlačítko RANGE se rozsvítí.




* Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou stejné.

                            26
  6. Pady a režimy




Tlačítka režimů: umožňuje povolit až osm režimů.
Chcete-li povolit hlavní režim, stiskněte tlačítko HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 nebo SAMPLER 4.
Chcete-li aktivovat sekundární režim (MODE 5, MODE
6, MODE 7 a MODE 8), stiskněte současně klávesu
SHIFT   a   HOT      CUE 1,    LOOP 2,   STEMS 3   nebo
SAMPLER 4. Tlačítko režimu bliká.
Režimy povolené na padech se liší v závislosti na
použitém softwaru.


Další informace o různých režimech v DJUCED, Serato
DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro najdete v sekci Režimy a pady.


Performance pady: pad provede akci.




                              27
  7. Režimy přehrávání




INSTRUMENTAL: umožňuje přehrávat pouze melodii,
basu a bicí. Jedná se o zkratku pro režim Stems.
  − Chcete-li přehrát pouze části skladby Melodie, Basy
    a Bicí, stiskněte tlačítko INSTRUMENTAL. Tlačítko
    se rozsvítí.
  − Chcete-li obnovit přehrávání všech částí skladby
    (Vokálů, Melodie, Basy a Bicí), stiskněte znovu
    tlačítko   INSTRUMENTAL.        Kontrolka      tlačítka
    zhasne.




                          28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: zapne režim Slip. V režimu
Slip pokračuje hlava přehrávání na pozadí, když
použijete efekt nebo smyčku, umístíte Cue bod nebo
když použijete motorizované plotny. Jakmile přestanete
aplikovat efekt, přehrávání se obnoví od bodu, kde by se
stopa nacházela, kdyby pokračovala v přehrávání.
Chcete-li se ujistit, že je režim Slip zapnutý, stiskněte
klávesu SHIFT. Tlačítko INSTRUMENTAL se rozsvítí.




Serato DJ Lite není vybaven režimem Slip.
Serato DJ Pro je vybaven režimem Slip.




                           29
VOCAL:     umožňuje    přehrávat   pouze    vokální      část
skladby. Jedná se o zkratku pro režim Stems.
  − Chcete-li přehrát pouze vokální část skladby,
    stiskněte tlačítko VOCAL. Tlačítko se rozsvítí.
  − Chcete-li obnovit přehrávání všech částí skladby
    (Vokálů, Melodie, Basů a Bicích), stiskněte znovu
    tlačítko VOCAL. Kontrolka tlačítka zhasne.


SHIFT + VOCAL: zapne režim Kvantizace. Kvantizace
umožňuje použít akci na následující takt v mřížce
(přehrát skladbu, umístit Cue bod, spustit smyčku...).
Chcete-li se ujistit, že je režim Kvantizace povolen,
stiskněte klávesu SHIFT. Tlačítko VOCAL se rozsvítí.




Serato DJ Lite není vybaven režimem Kvantizace.
Serato DJ Pro je vybaven režimem Kvantizace.




                           30
      (pitch bend -) /           (pitch bend +): umožňuje
ručně zarovnat beatovou mřížku skladby přehrávané na
tomto decku s beatovou mřížkou druhého decku.
  − Stisknutím     a    podržením     tlačítka        na
    přechodnou dobu zpomalíte pohyb decku.
  − Stisknutím     a    podržením     tlačítka        na
    přechodnou dobu zrychlíte pohyb decku.




V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +            a
SHIFT +          umožňuje upravit nastavení v určitých
režimech (Nastavení).




                            31
Mixování

  8. Monitoring, hlasitost a Beatmatch Guide




MIC hlasitost: upravuje hlasitost mikrofonu.


MIC podsvícený kroužek: ukazuje úroveň zvukového
signálu (VU metr).
  − Vypnuto: není k dispozici žádný zvukový signál.
  − Zelená: přehrává se zvukový signál.
  − Červená: zvukový signál je saturován.


MASTER hlasitost: upravuje hlasitost přehrávaného
mixu v reproduktorech.


MASTER VU metr: zobrazuje úroveň audio signálu
hlavního výstupu (RCA nebo XLR) pro reproduktory.


                           32
HEADPHONES hlasitost:
 −         /         :   upravuje   signál   přehrávaný   ve
     sluchátkách a míchá výstup Cue (monitorování
     decků 1 a 2) a výstup Mix (výstup Master).
       o Chcete-li       poslouchat    pouze     monitoring,
         stiskněte tlačítka Monitoring pro decky 1 a 2.
         Tlačítka se rozsvítí. Poté nastavte knoflík na
         Cue.
       o Chcete-li poslouchat pouze Master výstup,
         stiskněte tlačítko Master Monitoring. Tlačítko se
         rozsvítí. Poté nastavte knoflík na Mix a upravte
         mix přehrávaný ve sluchátkách.
 −        : upravuje hlasitost výstupu sluchátek.




                              33
Monitoring:       vybere    zdroj    zvuku    přehrávaný      ve
sluchátkách.
  −           (umístěný     pod     MASTER      VU      metrem):
      přehrává zvuk přehrávaného mixu nahlas pro
      publikum.
  −       *     (umístěné    po     obou     stranách    tlačítka
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): přehrává zvuk z decku 1
      nebo decku 2, když je tlačítko Cue/Mix nastaveno
      na Cue.
V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite můžete stisknutím tlačítek
SHIFT a           * (vedle tlačítka BEATMATCH GUIDE)
upravit beatovou mřížku skladby přehrávané na tomto
decku. Chcete-li ukončit režim úprav beatové mřížky,
klikněte na tlačítko Edit Grid (Upravit mřížku).




* Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou stejné.
                          34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: zapne nebo vypne světelné
vodítko pro úpravu tempa a zarovnání taktových mřížek
dvou stop. V každém decku jsou čtyři červené šipky.




DJUCED®      definuje   jeden   z   decků   jako   hlavní
synchronizační deck (Master Sync) a druhý jako
vedlejší deck. Červené šipky se rozsvítí pouze na
vedlejším decku, protože tento deck se řídí tempem
hlavního synchronizačního decku.
Serato DJ Lite nedefinuje hlavní synchronizační deck.
Na obou deccích svítí červené šipky.




                           35
− TEMPO vizuální průvodci: pokud svítí jedna ze
 dvou červených šipek umístěných vpravo od tempo
 faderu, znamená to, že tempo (tj. počet úderů za
 minutu) skladby přehrávané na tomto decku je jiné
 než tempo druhého decku.
 Šipky označují směr, kterým je třeba pohybovat
 tempo faderem, aby se tempo přehrávané skladby
 přizpůsobilo tempu na druhém decku.
       o Horní šipka svítí nahoru: posuňte tempo
         fader nahoru. Tím se tempo zpomalí.
       o Spodní šipka svítí nahoru: posuňte tempo
         fader dolů. Tím se tempo zrychlí.
       o Šipky nesvítí: tempo decku je shodné s
         tempem hlavního synchronizačního decku.




                      36
− BEAT ALIGN vizuální průvodci: pokud svítí jedna ze
  dvou      červených       šipek       umístěných        pod
  motorizovanou plotnou, znamená to, že údery
  skladby    přehrávané      na     tomto     decku    nejsou
  zarovnány s údery druhého decku.
− Šipky označují směr, kterým je třeba otáčet
  motorizovanou plotnou, aby se údery přehrávané
  skladby vyrovnaly s údery druhého decku.
         o Rozsvícená         šipka      vlevo:       otáčejte
            motorizovanou          plotnou     ve      směru
            hodinových ručiček. Tím se zrychlí rychlost
            přehrávání.
         o Rozsvícená        šipka      vpravo:       otáčejte
            motorizovanou          plotnou    proti    směru
            hodinových     ručiček.     Tím    se     zpomalí
            rychlost přehrávání.
         o Nesvítící      šipky:     údery     decku     jsou
            zarovnány s údery druhého decku.




                           37
  9. Sekce mixování




GAIN knoflík*: upravuje gain (tj. úroveň hlasitosti před
faderem hlasitosti).


3pásmový ekvalizér (EQ)*: ovládá intenzitu ekvalizéru.
Každému pásmu je přiřazen knoflík: HIGH, MID a LOW.


FILTER knoflík*: nastavuje frekvenci duálního filtru
(horní a dolní propust).




*Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou stejné.
                          38
  10.   Mixér




VU metr: zobrazuje úroveň zvukového signálu decků 1 a 2.


Fader hlasitosti*: upravuje hlasitost přehrávače.


Crossfader: umožňuje provést přechod mezi dvěma
skladbami zvýšením hlasitosti jednoho z decků a
současným snížením hlasitosti druhého decku.
  − Crossfader úplně doleva: uslyšíte pouze stopu v
    decku 1.
  − Crossfader úplně doprava: uslyšíte pouze stopu v
    decku 2.
  − Crossfader uprostřed: slyšíte stopy na obou deccích
    1 a 2 současně.


                           39
Přepínač křivek: umožňuje upravit křivku crossfaderu.
  −       (mix): postupné mixování obou decků.
  −       (scratch): velmi rychlé míchání obou decků.
  −       (vypnuto): crossfader je vypnutý, abyste mohli
      mixovat pouze pomocí faderů hlasitosti.




V aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro můžete
upravit nastavení crossfaderu. Přejděte do nabídky
Nastavení a poté do nabídky Mixer:
 − Power (Výkonná): rychlá křivka pro scratching.
 − Linear (Lineární): progresivní křivka pro mixování.
 − Reverse     (Reverzní):   změní    směr   crossfaderu,
   známý také jako režim "Hamster".




*Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou stejné.

                             40
  11.     Efekty




Zobrazení sloupce s efekty:
  − V DJUCED: klikněte na           .
  − V Serato DJ Lite: klikněte na            .


Tlačítka efektů      /    /     *: umožňuje vybrat efekt ze
sloupce efektů. Tlačítko se rozsvítí.
Chcete-li efekt povolit, použijte ovládací páčku.
Chcete-li upravit efekty přiřazené tlačítkům            /    /   ,
vyberte nový efekt ve sloupci efektů. V aplikacích Serato
DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro můžete také stisknutím kláves
SHIFT a     ,      nebo       zobrazit seznam efektů a poté
stisknutím kláves SHIFT a                ,       nebo       znovu
procházet seznamem a vybrat nový efekt.




 V Serato DJ Lite:
 − Je možné kombinovat více efektů najednou.


                               41
 − Tři efekty           /       /    vlevo se vztahují na levý deck
   (Deck 1) a tři efekty                /      /     vpravo se vztahují
   na pravý deck (Deck 2).
 V Serato DJ Pro se dvě skupiny tří efektových tlačítek
 vztahují na dva virtuální decky.


Ovládací páčka*: umožňuje zapnout efekt načtený na
tlačítkách      ,           nebo       . K dispozici jsou tři různé
polohy:
  − HOLD: nepřetržitě aktivuje efekt, dokud je páčka v
    této poloze.
  − ON: dočasně aktivuje efekt, když je páčka v této
    poloze.
  − Střední poloha: vypnutý efekt.


DEPTH knoflík: upravuje intenzitu efektu.


Tlačítka            /       :       upravuje       délku   cyklu   efektu
synchronizovaného s hudbou.




DJUCED tuto funkci neobsahuje.




*Funkce na decku 1 a 2 jsou stejné.

                                       42
Konektory




  12.    Hlavní výstup pro reproduktory (výstup 1-2)
  13.    Symetrický vstup pro mikrofon
  14.    USB-B 2.0 port
  15.    Tlačítko POWER
  16.    Konektor pro napájecí adaptér
  17.    Výstup pro sluchátka (výstup 3-4)


Hlavní   výstup    pro    reproduktory    (výstup   1-2):
umožňuje připojit aktivní reproduktory.
Formáty: 2 x nesymetrický RCA (Cinch) a 2 x symetrický
XLR.


Symetrický vstup pro mikrofon: umožňuje připojit
symetrický nebo nesymetrický mikrofon.
Formát: 6,35 mm jack.




                           43
USB-B 2.0 port: umožňuje připojit kontrolér k počítači.


Tlačítko   POWER :      umožňuje   zapnout   a   vypnout
kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7.


Konektor pro napájecí adaptér: umožňuje připojit
napájecí kabel a zapojit kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7
do elektrické zásuvky pomocí adaptéru.


Výstup pro sluchátka (výstup 3-4): umožňuje připojit
sluchátka a sledovat skladby.
Formáty: 3,5 mm stereo mini-jack konektor a 6,35 mm
stereo jack konektor.




                           44
Vysuňte čtyři výsuvné nožičky, abyste pozvedli
kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 a vedli pod ním kabely.




− Před přepravou kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7
  zasuňte nožičky.
− Pokud kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 nepoužíváte,
  zasuňte nožičky.
− Když jsou nožičky vysunuté, netlačte na kontrolér
  DJControl Inpulse T7 větší silou než 5 kg / 50
  newtonů.




                         45
 4.     Instalace

Připojení
 1. Připojte napájecí adaptér ke kontroléru DJControl
   Inpulse T7.
 2. Připojte napájecí kabel k napájecímu adaptéru a
   zapojte jej do elektrické zásuvky.
 3. Připojte kabel USB ke kontroléru DJControl Inpulse
   T7 a k počítači.
 4. Stiskněte tlačítko POWER na kontroléru DJControl
   Inpulse T7. Tlačítko se zamáčkne dovnitř.
 5. Ujistěte se, že jsou reproduktory vypnuté, nebo
   pokud jsou připojeny k externímu zesilovači, že je
   zesilovač     vypnutý.   Připojte    vstupy   aktivních
   reproduktorů k výstupům Master pro reproduktory
   kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA nebo 2 x
   XLR).
 6. Na kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7 nastavte
   hlasitost MASTER na minimální úroveň a poté
   zapněte reproduktory.
 7. Nasaďte si sluchátka na krk (nikoli na uši) a připojte
   je ke konektoru mini jack 3,5 mm nebo konektoru
   jack 6,35 mm.
 8. Připojte mikrofon ke vstupu mikrofonu (volitelné).




                            46
                        Napájení
− Používejte    pouze     napájecí    zdroj   uvedený    v
  uživatelské příručce.
− Napájecí     zdroj   používejte    pouze    se   síťovým
  napětím a frekvencí uvedenými na typovém štítku
  zdroje.



                            47
− Je možné současně používat oba výstupní formáty
  (XLR a RCA) - například připojením výstupního
  páru k PA systému a druhého výstupního páru k
  monitorovacím reproduktorům.
− Při každém připojení kontroléru DJControl Inpulse
  T7 k počítači se spustí sekvence rozsvícení LED
  diod, která se nazývá Vegas Mode. Režim Vegas
  Mode probíhá ve čtyřech fázích, což umožňuje
  rozsvítit všechny LED diody a zobrazit různé možné
  barvy na padech a na podsvícených kroužcích
  enkodérů BROWSER.




                        48
Stažení softwaru

DJUCED

 1. Prosím navštivte:
   https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Stáhněte a nainstalujte DJUCED®.
 3. Prosím navštivte:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (v angličtině).
 4. Stáhněte si a nainstalujte sadu ovladačů pro
   operační systém svého počítače.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Systém Windows® vyžaduje instalaci ovladačů,
    aby bylo možné používat DJControl Inpulse T7 v
    režimu ASIO, který ve srovnání s režimem
    WASAPI snižuje latenci a je obecně stabilnější.
    Ovladače    také    umožňují   otestovat     kontrolér
    DJControl Inpulse T7 a ověřit verzi firmwaru v
    systému Windows® i macOS®.
 5. Spusťte software DJUCED Zobrazí se okno s
   informací, že váš kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 byl
   úspěšně detekován a je připraven k použití.




                              49
 Při prvním spuštění softwaru vás DJUCED® provede
 připojením sluchátek a aktivních reproduktorů (nebo
 vám umožní použít reproduktory integrované v
 počítači, pokud nemáte externí aktivní reproduktory).
 Než začnete pracovat, postupujte krok za krokem
 podle informací na obrazovce.


Nastavení zvuku:
Chcete-li v aplikaci DJUCED® upravit nastavení zvukové
karty, klikněte na ikonu ozubeného kolečka         v pravé
horní části obrazovky. Zobrazí se nabídka Nastavení.
Výběrem karty Audio (Zvuk) vyberte zvukovou kartu a
přiřaďte výstupy pro sluchátka a reproduktory.


Standardní nastavení pro systém Windows® je následující:
  − Audio    device    (Zvukové     zařízení):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Výstup):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                           50
Standardní nastavení pro systém macOS® je následující:
  − Audio    device    (Zvukové     zařízení):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Výstup):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Prosím navštivte:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Stáhněte a nainstalujte Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Prosím navštivte:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (v angličtině).
 4. Stáhněte si a nainstalujte sadu ovladačů pro
   operační systém svého počítače.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Systém Windows® vyžaduje instalaci ovladačů, aby
    bylo možné používat DJControl Inpulse T7 v
    režimu ASIO, který ve srovnání s režimem
    WASAPI snižuje latenci a je obecně stabilnější.
    Ovladače     také   umožňují    otestovat   kontrolér
    DJControl Inpulse T7 a ověřit verzi firmwaru v
    systému Windows® i macOS®.




                              52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje licenci na
Serato DJ Lite, nikoliv licenci na Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite lze použít bez časového omezení.
Pokud si místo Serato DJ Lite nainstalujete Serato DJ
Pro, bude Serato DJ Pro po dobu zkušební doby
spolupracovat s vaším DJControl Inpulse T7. Pokud
chcete po skončení této zkušební doby pokračovat v
používání aplikace Serato DJ Pro, musíte si zakoupit
licenci Serato DJ Pro.




                          53
  5.     Oživení vašeho mixu
Mix můžete oživit různými způsoby.



Režimy a pady

Pady

V aplikaci DJUCED slouží pady 1 až 8 k provádění akcí
odpovídajících aktuálně aktivovanému režimu.


V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite slouží pady 1 až 4 k provádění
akcí odpovídajících aktuálně aktivovanému režimu. Pady
5 až 8 provádějí následující akce:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (zpětné přehrávání)
  − Pad 6: přetáčení
  − Pad 7: rychlý posun vpřed
  − Pad 8: Censor. Tato akce umožňuje přehrávat
    skladbu pozpátku při stisknutém padu. Po uvolnění
    podložky se přehrávání obnoví od místa, kde by se
    skladba nacházela, kdyby se přehrávala normálně.
    Tuto funkci lze použít k zamaskování explicitního
    jazyka ve skladbě.




                           54
Režimy povolené na padech se liší v závislosti na
použitém softwaru:


Režim DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

  1      Hot Cue       Hot Cue          Hot Cue

  2     Loop Roll     Auto Loop        Auto Loop
  3       Stems         Stems            Stems
  4      Sampler       Sampler          Sampler
  5     TonePlay          –            Pitch Play
  6      PadFX            –            Loop Roll
  7    Slicer Loop   Manual Loop      Manual Loop
  8     BeatJump     Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro licence není součástí dodávky.




                          55
Režim Hot Cue

Hot Cue bod je značka (podobná záložce), kterou
můžete umístit do skladby, abyste tento okamžik ve
skladbě snadno našli a mohli se k němu později
okamžitě vrátit.


V DJUCED lze pro každou stopu nastavit osm Hot Cue
bodů.


V Serato DJ Lite lze pro každou stopu nastavit čtyři Hot
Cue body.
V Serato DJ Pro lze pro každou stopu nastavit osm Hot
Cue bodů.


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu Hot Cue, stiskněte
    tlačítko HOT CUE 1. Kontrolka tlačítka HOT CUE 1
    zůstane svítit.
  2. Chcete-li nastavit Hot Cue bod, stiskněte pad.
  3. Chcete-li přehrát skladbu z Hot Cue bodu, stiskněte
    příslušný pad.
  4. Chcete-li odebrat Hot Cue bod, stiskněte současně
    klávesu SHIFT a příslušný pad.




                           56
Režim Loop




V DJUCED odpovídá tento režim režimu Loop Roll.
Při použití smyčky pokračuje hlava přehrávání decku v
posunu na pozadí. Když smyčku vypnete, přehrávání
se obnoví od bodu, kde by se stopa nacházela, kdyby
pokračovala v přehrávání.
V aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro odpovídá
tento režim režimu Auto Loop.


Smyčka je část skladby, která se přehrává opakovaně.


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu Loop, stiskněte tlačítko
    LOOP 2. Kontrolka tlačítka LOOP 2 zůstane
    rozsvícená.


V DJUCED:
  2. Chcete-li vytvořit smyčku, stiskněte a podržte pad.
  3. Chcete-li smyčku vypnout, uvolněte příslušný pad.


V Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Chcete-li vytvořit smyčku, stiskněte pad.
  3. Chcete-li smyčku vypnout, stiskněte příslušný pad.




                            57
Délka smyčky:

 Deck 1 / Deck 2   DJUCED     Serato DJ Lite

      Pad 1        1/16 doby      1 doba
      Pad 2         ⅛ doby        2 doby
      Pad 3         ¼ doby        4 doby
      Pad 4         ½ doby         8 dob
      Pad 5         1 doba           -
      Pad 6         2 doby           -
      Pad 7         4 doby           -
      Pad 8         8 dob            -




                    58
Režim Stems

Režim Stems umožňuje rozdělit stopu na čtyři různé
části (vokály a nástroje), tzv. "stems".


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu Stems, stiskněte
     tlačítko STEMS 3. Kontrolka tlačítka STEMS 3
     zůstane rozsvícená.
  2. Podložky 1 až 4 jsou spojeny s jedním prvkem
     stem. Chcete-li přehrávání prvku stem zastavit,
     stiskněte příslušný pad. Kontrolka padu zhasne.
  3. Chcete-li pokračovat v přehrávání stem, stiskněte
     příslušný pad. Pad se rozsvítí.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                        Stem

           Pad 1                           Vokály
           Pad 2                           Melodie
           Pad 3                            Basy
           Pad 4                            Bicí




                             59
Při      prvním   zapnutí   funkce    stems     ve   skladbě
nedochází vždy k okamžitému oddělení. Může to trvat
několik okamžiků, než software DJ analyzuje stopu a
vygeneruje jednotlivé části (vokály, melodie, basy,
bicí).


Nezapomeňte        si   ponechat     dostatek   času   mezi
okamžikem, kdy jednotlivé stems oddělujete, a
okamžikem, kdy je přehráváte. Po vygenerování
jednotlivých stems je jejich přehrávání okamžité.


Pro použití režimu Stems je nutný výkonný počítač.




                              60
Režim Sampler

Ukázka      je   krátký    zvuk       přehrávaný    přes   právě
přehrávanou skladbu: může být přehrán buď jednou
(jingle), nebo opakovaně (smyčka).


V aplikaci DJUCED umožňují pady 1 až 8 přehrávat
osm vzorků, které se nacházejí na prvních dvou řádcích
vícevrstvého sampleru.
Chcete-li    zobrazit     vícevrstvý     sampler,    vyberte   v
rozevírací nabídce v levé horní části obrazovky v
DJUCED možnost 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers.


V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite umožňují pady 1 až 4 přehrávat
samply.
Chcete-li zobrazit panel samplů, klikněte v aplikaci
Serato DJ Lite na možnost         .


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu Sampler, stiskněte
    tlačítko SAMPLER 4. Kontrolka tlačítka SAMPLER 4
    zůstane rozsvícená.
  2. Chcete-li přehrát sample, stiskněte pad.
  3. Chcete-li přehrávání samplu zastavit, stiskněte
    současně klávesu SHIFT a příslušný pad.




                               61
Režim 5




Serato DJ Lite není vybaven režimem 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro ve spojení s pluginem Pitch 'n Time
nabízí režim Pitch Play, který funguje na stejném
principu jako režim TonePlay.


V aplikaci DJUCED odpovídá režim 5 režimu TonePlay.
Tento režim umožňuje přehrát Hot Cue bod v různých
tóninách.


  1. Povolte režim Hot Cue a vyberte Hot Cue bod.
  2. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu 5, stiskněte současně
    klávesu SHIFT a HOT CUE 1. Tlačítko HOT CUE 1
    začne blikat.
  3. Chcete-li upravit tóninu Hot Cue bodu, stiskněte
    jeden z padů 2 až 8.
  4. Chcete-li se vrátit k původní tónině, stiskněte pad 1.




                            62
Úprava tóniny:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2            Tone

         Pad 1             Původní tónina
         Pad 2                  +1
         Pad 3                  +2
         Pad 4                  +3
         Pad 5                  -1
         Pad 6                  -2
         Pad 7                  -3
         Pad 8                  -4




                      63
Režim 6




Serato DJ Lite není vybaven režimem 6.


V DJUCED odpovídá režim 6 režimu PadFX. Tento
režim umožňuje ovládat efekty v efektovém sloupci
pomocí padů.
Efekt je někdy filtr nebo kombinace filtrů aplikovaná na
stopu za účelem úpravy jejího zvuku (echo, reverb...).


Chcete-li zobrazit sloupec s efekty, klikněte na   .


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu 6, stiskněte současně
    klávesu SHIFT a tlačítko LOOP 2. Tlačítko LOOP 2
    začne blikat.
  2. Chcete-li provést akci, stiskněte pad.
  3. Chcete-li efekt vypnout, stiskněte příslušný pad (pad
    1 až 3).




                            64
Možné akce:

Deck 1 / Deck                Efekty

    Pad 1              Efekt 1 ve sloupci
    Pad 2              Efekt 2 ve sloupci
    Pad 3              Efekt 3 ve sloupci
    Pad 4       Zobrazení/skrytí sloupce s efekty
    Pad 5          Změna efektu 1 ve sloupci
    Pad 6          Změna efektu 2 ve sloupci
    Pad 7          Změna efektu 3 ve sloupci
    Pad 8                       -




                       65
Režim 7




V DJUCED odpovídá režim 7 režimu Slicer Loop. V
aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro odpovídá
režim 7 režimu Manual Loop.


V aplikaci DJUCED odpovídá režim 7 režimu Slicer
Loop. Tento režim umožňuje rozřezat aktivní smyčku na
osm částí.


  1. Chcete-li přejít do režimu 7 (Slicer Loop), stiskněte
    současně klávesu SHIFT a tlačítko STEMS 3.
    Tlačítko STEMS 3 začne blikat.
  2. Chcete-li přehrát část jako smyčku, stiskněte a
    podržte pad.
  3. Chcete-li   ukončit   přehrávání   úseku,   uvolněte
    příslušný pad.




                            66
V aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro odpovídá
režim 7 režimu Manual Loop. Tento režim umožňuje
ručně zapnout smyčku.


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu 7 (Manual Loop),
    stiskněte současně tlačítka SHIFT a STEMS 3.
    Tlačítko STEMS 3 bliká.
  2. Chcete-li provést akci, stiskněte pad.


Možné akce:

  Deck 1/2                        Efekty

    Pad 1       První stisknutí: nastaví vstupní bod (IN)
                 Druhé stisknutí: upraví vstupní bod (IN)

    Pad 2         První stisknutí: nastaví výstupní bod
                                  (OUT)
                  Druhé stisknutí: upraví výstupní bod
                                  (OUT)
    Pad 3                 Povolí/vypne smyčku

    Pad 4         Přesune přehrávací hlavu na začátek
                     smyčky a přehraje ji. (Reloop)

 AUTOLOOP           Zvětšuje/zmenšuje délku smyčky
  enkodér




                            67
Režim 8




V aplikaci DJUCED odpovídá režim 8 režimu
BeatJump. V aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ
Pro odpovídá režim 8 režimu Scratch Banks.


V    aplikaci   DJUCED      odpovídá    režim   8   režimu
BeatJump. Tento režim umožňuje provést přesný skok
ve stopě.


    1. Chcete-li přejít do režimu 8 (BeatJump), stiskněte
      současně klávesu SHIFT a tlačítko SAMPLER 4.
      Tlačítko SAMPLER 4 začne blikat.
    2. Chcete-li provést skok, stiskněte pad.


Délka skoku:

      Deck 1 / Deck 2                     Skok

            Pad 1                  Návrat o 1 dobu zpět
            Pad 2              Posun o 1 dobu dopředu
            Pad 3                  Návrat o 2 doby zpět
            Pad 4               Posun o 2 doby dopředu
            Pad 5                  Návrat o 4 doby zpět
            Pad 6               Posun o 4 doby dopředu
            Pad 7                  Návrat o 8 dob zpět
            Pad 8                 Posun o 8 dob dopředu
                             68
V aplikacích Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro odpovídá
režim 8 režimu Scratch Banks. Tento režim umožňuje
okamžitě nahrát do decku scratch sample, který se bude
scratchovat   na   motorizované    plotně   místo   právě
přehrávané skladby, a poté se rychle vrátit k právě
přehrávané skladbě.
Chcete-li zobrazit panel se scratch samply, klikněte na
  v Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Chcete-li vstoupit do režimu 8 (Scratch Banks),
    stiskněte současně klávesu SHIFT a tlačítko
    SAMPLER 4. Tlačítko SAMPLER 4 začne blikat.
  2. Chcete-li přehrát scratch sample, stiskněte pad.
  3. Chcete-li zastavit přehrávání scratch samplu a vrátit
    se ke stopě, která se předtím přehrávala, stiskněte
    současně klávesu SHIFT a příslušný pad.


Samply:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Sample

          Pad 1                         Ahh!
          Pad 2                      Hey You!
          Pad 3                        Oww!
          Pad 4                        Yeah!




                           69
Scratching
Scratchování spočívá ve vytváření zvukového efektu ze
skladby otáčením motorizované plotny.


Položte ukazováček na horní část motorizované plotny a
provádějte malé, rychlé pohyby doprava a doleva.


Toto scratchování můžete opakovat vícekrát a vytvořit
tak rytmus.




 − Před scratchováním nebo mixováním se ujistěte, že
   jste mezi motorizovanou plotnu a vinylovou desku
   umístili plstěnou podložku.
 − Při umísťování vinylové desky na motorizovanou
   plotnu na ni netlačte silou. Riskujete tím poškození
   středu vinylové desky.




                            70
Filtry
Úprava filtru stopy umožňuje zeslabit určité frekvence.


  − Tlumení vysokých frekvencí (tzv. dolnopropustný filtr
    nebo high-cut filtr): otočte knoflík filtru (FILTER)
    doleva.
  − Zeslabení nízkých frekvencí (tzv. horněpropustný
    filtr nebo low-cut filtr): otočte knoflíkem filtru
    (FILTER) doprava.




                           71
  6.      Vícekanálová zvuková karta
Kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje vestavěnou
vícekanálovou      zvukovou        kartu,   která   umožňuje
přehrávat váš mix na reproduktorech pro publikum
(výstup   Master    pro   reproduktory),      sledovat   další
připravovanou skladbu na sluchátkách (výstup pro
sluchátka) a jako zdroj zvuku použít mikrofon a/nebo
zařízení vybavené linkovým výstupem.




                              72
Master        výstup           pro       reproduktory
(výstup 1-2)
Aktivní reproduktory musí být připojeny k jednomu ze
dvou Master výstupů pro reproduktory umístěných na
zadní straně DJ kontroléru.




 Je možné používat oba výstupní formáty současně -
 například připojením výstupního páru k PA systému a
 druhého     výstupního       páru   k    monitorovacím
 reproduktorům.


                              73
Výstup pro sluchátka (výstup 3-4)
Sluchátka musí být připojena k jednomu ze dvou
sluchátkových výstupů     umístěných na přední straně
DJ kontroléru.




Ve výchozím nastavení je při každém připojení DJ
kontroléru sluchátkový výstup přiřazen k výstupu 3-4,
aby mohl pracovat se všemi DJ softwary dostupnými na
trhu - včetně a zejména DJUCED® Serato DJ Lite.


Pokud však chcete výstup pro sluchátka DJ kontroléru
použít například k poslechu hudby na počítači pomocí
iTunes, musíte výstup 1-2 nasměrovat na výstup pro
sluchátka. Za tímto účelem stiskněte tlačítko
umístěné pod měřičem MASTER VU.




                         74
Nedoporučujeme     připojovat   dva   páry   sluchátek
současně (tj. jedny do výstupního konektoru 3,5 mm
mini-jack a druhé do výstupního konektoru 6,35 mm
jack). Pokud oba páry sluchátek nemají stejnou
impedanci, budou mít rozdílnou výstupní hlasitost.




                          75
Výstup pro mikrofon
Mikrofon musí být připojen do mikrofonního vstupu
umístěného na zadní straně DJ kontroléru. Vstup pro
mikrofon je symetrický.




                          76
Můžete    připojit        symetrický   nebo   nesymetrický
mikrofon. Vyvážený mikrofon produkuje čistší a
silnější zvuk s menším množstvím dechových efektů.
Pokud není vyvážený mikrofon připojen pomocí
vyváženého kabelu, sníží se kvalita zvuku vašeho
mikrofonu.


                      Vyvážený kabel

             Tip (Hrot)
         Ring (Prsten)

         Sleeve (Obal)




                     Nevyvážený kabel


             Tip (Hrot)


         Sleeve (Obal)




                               77
  7.     Kompatibilita

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Tento DJ kontrolér je Plug & Play a může pracovat bez
ovladačů s DJUCED na jakémkoli PC nebo Mac,
protože splňuje standardy USB Audio a USB MIDI.



ASIO a Windows® ovládací panel
Chcete-li používat kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 s
aplikací Serato DJ Lite, musíte nainstalovat ovladače
ASIO. Ovladače ASIO jsou k dispozici zde:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Pokud používáte DJUCED, můžete si také stáhnout
ovladače ASIO, abyste mohli využít nižší latenci na
svém počítači.


Ovladače ASIO jsou dodávány s ovládacím panelem,
který je přístupný na hlavním panelu počítače nebo v
adresáři C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\. Tento panel umožňuje upravit
různá nastavení ASIO včetně velikosti vyrovnávací
paměti a latence.




                         78
Úprava nastavení ASIO:
  − Nastavení velikosti vyrovnávací paměti ASIO na 4
    nebo 8 ms.
  − Spusťte svůj software (např.: DJUCED®) a vyberte
    ovladač DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO):




Jakmile    software   začne    používat   ovladač   ASIO,
nastavení ASIO již nelze v ovládacím panelu měnit. To
je zcela normální a svědčí to o tom, že se ovladač ASIO
používá.




                              79
Použijte svůj software a pozorně poslouchejte, zda se ve
zvuku nevyskytují závady nebo rušivé prvky (cvakání,
praskání) nebo problémy s latencí. Pokud se objeví
závady nebo rušivé artefakty, je třeba zvětšit velikost
vyrovnávací paměti, aby se problémy vyřešily.


Zavřete software a upravte vyrovnávací paměť ASIO po
jedné hodnotě:
  − Zmenšete velikost vyrovnávací paměti, abyste
    snížili latenci.
  − Pokud si všimnete závad nebo artefaktů ve zvuku,
    zvětšete velikost vyrovnávací paměti.


Tento postup budete muset opakovat, dokud nenajdete
optimální velikost vyrovnávací paměti pro váš systém.


Ovladače jsou k dispozici zde:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                          80
Aktualizace firmware
Váš DJ kontrolér je vybaven režimem automatické
aktualizace firmwaru. To vyžaduje instalaci ovladačů
Hercules a postupování podle pokynů na obrazovce.
Aktualizace firmwaru proběhne automaticky.


Ovladače jsou k dispozici zde:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Ovládací    panel   také   umožňuje    přístup    k   těmto
informacím a zobrazení verzí ovladačů nainstalovaných
v počítači na kartě ABOUT (O ZAŘÍZENÍ). Mějte tyto
informace    připravené,   pokud      budete     potřebovat
kontaktovat technickou podporu společnosti Hercules.




                           81
Testování DJ kontroléru v ovládacím
panelu
V sekci ABOUT (O ZAŘÍZENÍ) ovládacího panelu
DJControl Inpulse T7 můžete otestovat zvuk, ovládání
MIDI a osvětlení DJ kontroléru a motorizované plotny.


Chcete-li získat přístup k ovládacímu panelu, přejděte do
následujícího           adresáře:            C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Zvukový test

Chcete-li otestovat, zda zvukové rozhraní kontroléru
DJControl Inpulse T7 vydává zvuk (aniž byste k tomu
použili software DJ), klikněte na ikonu reproduktoru.
Ikona během testu zezelená a program přehraje zvuk na
Master výstupech pro reproduktory a sluchátka.




                           82
  2. Test ovládání MIDI

Chcete-li vyzkoušet, zda ovládací prvky MIDI kontroléru
DJControl Inpulse T7 fungují (aniž byste k tomu museli
použít DJ software), zkuste použít tlačítka nebo jiné
ovládací prvky, které chcete vyzkoušet. Pokud ikona
konektoru DIN zezelená, znamená to, že je příkaz MIDI
přijímán a tlačítko nebo jiný ovládací prvek funguje
správně.




                          83
  3. Test osvětlení

Chcete-li otestovat, zda LED kontroléru DJControl
Inpulse T7 fungují (aniž byste k tomu museli použít
software DJ), klikněte na ikonu žárovky, čímž se LED
kontroléru rozsvítí. Ikona se během testu rozsvítí zeleně
a LED kontroléru se rozsvítí.




Všechny LED kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7 můžete
také rozsvítit současným stisknutím tlačítek IN a OUT
na obou deccích.




                           84
  4. Test motorizovaných ploten

Chcete-li otestovat, zda motorizované plotny kontroléru
DJControl Inpulse T7 fungují (aniž byste k tomu museli
použít DJ software), klikněte na ikonu plotny 1 nebo 2.
Ikony příslušné plotny a konektoru DIN se během testu
rozsvítí zeleně a motorizovaná plotna se na kontroléru
pohybuje (tj. otáčí).


Test motorizované plotny číslo 1:




Test motorizované plotny číslo 2:




                           85
  8.     Demo režim
Tento režim je k dispozici při připojení DJ kontroléru k
napájecímu zdroji a napájení USB bez počítače a
používá se zejména v obchodě. V tomto případě není DJ
kontrolér funkční, ale je v demo režimu: neustále se
opakuje demo sekvence rozsvěcující různé kontrolky
kontroléru.




                          86
  9.      Nejčastější dotazy

  1.      Ze sluchátek nevychází žádný
        zvuk.
Ujistěte se, že jste připojili sluchátka na přední straně DJ
kontroléru,     protože váš    DJ   kontrolér    je vybaven
vícekanálovou        zvukovou       kartou,       která   je
předkonfigurována pro práci s DJUCED® a Serato DJ
Lite.
Ve výchozím nastavení jsou při prvním spuštění
softwaru povolena dvě monitorovací tlačítka. Poté
můžete vybrat jeden z decků, který chcete poslouchat ve
sluchátkách, nebo stisknout tlačítko            umístěné pod
měřičem MASTER VU a poslechnout si výsledky svého
mixu.




                              87
  2.       Zvuk ve sluchátkách je zkreslený
    nebo příliš tichý.
Ujistěte se, že vaše sluchátka mají konektor TRS
(standardní sluchátka), a ne TRRS (sluchátka +
mikrofon).


           Tip (Hrot)             Tip (Hrot)
       Ring (Prsten)              Ring (Prsten)
                                  Ring (Prsten)
       Sleeve (Obal)
                                  Sleeve (Obal)




TRRS konektory nejsou kompatibilní s kontrolérem
DJControl Inpulse T7.




                        88
  3.    Z reproduktorů nevychází žádný
    zvuk.
Ujistěte se, že jste připojili reproduktory ke konektorům
RCA nebo XLR na zadní straně DJ kontroléru, protože
váš DJ kontrolér je vybaven vícekanálovou zvukovou
kartou předkonfigurovanou pro práci s DJUCED® a
Serato DJ Lite.


Chcete-li otestovat (bez použití softwaru DJ), zda
zvukové rozhraní kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7
vydává zvuk, můžete zobrazit ovládací panel kontroléru
DJ. Klepněte na kartu ABOUT (O ZAŘÍZENÍ) a poté
klepněte na ikonu reproduktoru. Ikona se změní na
zelenou, pokud je přehráván zvuk.




                           89
  4.     Z reproduktorů mého notebooku
      nevychází žádný zvuk.
Váš    DJ   kontrolér   je   vybaven   předkonfigurovanou
vícekanálovou zvukovou kartou. Pokud chcete používat
reproduktory integrované v přenosném počítači:
  − V DJUCED® přejděte do nastavení a zaškrtněte
      možnost    SEND        MASTER    TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (ODESLAT HLAVNÍ SIGNÁL DO
      REPRODUKTORŮ POČÍTAČE).




  − V Serato DJ Lite přejděte do nastavení, otevřete
      záložku Audio (Zvuk) a zaškrtněte možnost Use
      Laptop Speakers (Použít reproduktory notebooku).




                              90
  5.    Ze sluchátek ani z reproduktorů
    notebooku nevychází žádný zvuk.
Ve výchozím nastavení vychází zvuk z Master výstupu
pro reproduktory a z výstupu pro sluchátka. Je proto
normální, že z přenosného počítače nevychází žádný
zvuk.


Pokud chcete používat reproduktory integrované v
přenosném počítači:
  − V DJUCED® přejděte do nastavení a zaškrtněte
    možnost    SEND      MASTER       TO    COMPUTER
    SPEAKERS (ODESLAT HLAVNÍ SIGNÁL DO
    REPRODUKTORŮ POČÍTAČE). Sluchátka musíte
    připojit ke kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7.




                           91
  − V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite přejděte do nastavení,
    otevřete kartu Audio (Zvuk) a zaškrtněte možnost
    Use    Laptop    Speakers    (Použít   reproduktory
    notebooku). Ke kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7
    musíte připojit sluchátka.




Chcete-li otestovat (bez použití softwaru DJ), zda
zvukové rozhraní kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7
vydává zvuk, můžete zobrazit ovládací panel kontroléru
DJ. Klepněte na kartu ABOUT (O ZAŘÍZENÍ) a poté
klepněte na ikonu reproduktoru. Ikona se změní na
zelenou, pokud je přehráván zvuk.




                           92
  6.      Mám problémy s kvalitou zvuku v
    systému Windows®.

Hlasitost přehrávané skladby je příliš nízká

Master hlasitost softwaru DJ je nezávislá na ovládání
hlasitosti na ovladači DJ. Pokud je tedy master hlasitost
softwaru DJ nízká, bude nízká i hlasitost Master výstupu.

Zkontrolujte hlasitost DJ softwaru a v případě potřeby ji
zvyšte.

  − V aplikaci DJUCED použijte tlačítko hlasitosti
    umístěné na liště v pravé horní části okna.




  − V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite, použijte tlačítko hlasitosti
    umístěné v liště v pravé horní části okna.




                           93
Hlasitost ve sluchátkách je příliš nízká

V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite, vstupte do nastavení, otevřete
kartu Audio (Zvuk) a zrušte zaškrtnutí (tj. zrušte výběr)
Use Laptop Speakers (Použít reproduktory notebooku).




                           94
Pokud potřebujete mít zaškrtnuté (tj. vybrané) políčko
Use Laptop Speakers (Použít reproduktory notebooku),
nastavte integrovanou zvukovou kartu počítače jako
"Reproduktory počítače":
  1. Zavřete software Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Vstupte do nastavení systému Windows a přejděte
    do nabídky System (Systém) a poté do nabídky
    Sound (Zvuk).
  3. V   části   Output   (Výstup)   vyberte   vestavěnou
    zvukovou kartu počítače. Jako výstup již nesmí být
    nastaven váš DJ kontrolér.




Systém Windows® mohl nastavit váš DJ kontrolér jako
zvukovou     kartu   systému     Windows®.     Pokud   toto
nastavení zachováte, může nastavení Use Laptop
Speakers (Použít reproduktory notebooku) přehrávat
Master výstup na čtyřkanálovém výstupu DJ kontroléru
(Master výstup + sluchátka).




                            95
Zvuk není čistý

V aplikaci DJUCED®:
Doporučujeme používat zvukové zařízení ASIO. Se
zařízením WASAPI je kvalita zvuku obecně dobrá. Může
se však zvýšit latence a zvuk nemusí být čistý.


Vstupte do nastavení, klikněte na kartu Audio (Zvuk) a
jako Audio device (Zvukové zařízení) vyberte DJControl
Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO).




V aplikaci Serato DJ Lite:
Vstupte do nastavení, otevřete kartu Audio (Zvuk) a
zrušte zaškrtnutí (tj. zrušte výběr) Use Laptop Speakers
(Použít reproduktory notebooku).




                             96
  7.       Nemohu              připojit      multimediální
     reproduktory                k mému          DJControl
     Inpulse T7.
Pokud      se      konektory    vašich    reproduktorů    liší   od
konektorů na kontroléru DJControl Inpulse T7, můžete
pro připojení multimediálních reproduktorů použít dvojitý
adaptér RCA na 3,5 mm mini-jack (není součástí
dodávky), dvojitý adaptér XLR na 6,35 mm jack (není
součástí dodávky) pro připojení PA reproduktorů nebo
jakýkoli    jiný     formát    adaptéru    odpovídající     vašim
reproduktorům.
Reproduktory můžete také připojit k výstupu pro
sluchátka a směrovat výstup 1-2 na výstup 3-4
stisknutím tlačítka               umístěného pod měřičem
MASTER VU.



  8.       Je            kontrolér               DJControl
     Inpulse T7 kompatibilní se zařízením
     iPad nebo iPhone?
Ne, kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 není kompatibilní s
iPadem ani iPhonem. Funguje pouze s PC nebo Mac.




                                 97
  9.    Jak      mohu              připojit      kontrolér
    DJControl Inpulse T7 k portu USB-
    C, nebo k portu Thunderbolt 3?
Kontrolér DJControl Inpulse T7 můžete připojit k portu
USB-C nebo Thunderbolt 3 třemi různými způsoby:
  − Pomocí     adaptéru        (USB-C         [samec]     nebo
    Thunderbolt 3 na USB-A [samice]) mezi počítačem
    a DJ kontrolérem. Upozorňujeme, že některé levné
    adaptéry   nebudou    fungovat       správně,       protože
    odpojují část napájení.
  − Pomocí doku (USB-C nebo Thunderbolt 3) mezi
    počítačem a DJ kontrolérem. Ujistěte se, že
    dokovací stanice má vyhrazený zdroj napájení,
    protože dokovací stanice napájená pouze přes port
    USB-C nebo Thunderbolt 3 nemusí mít dostatek
    energie.
  − Výměnou přiloženého kabelu USB za kabel USB-C
    nebo Thunderbolt 3 na USB-B 2.0.




                              98
  TECHNICKÁ PODPORA
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Ochranné známky
Intel® a Intel Core™ jsou ochranné známky nebo registrované ochranné
známky společnosti Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 je registrovaná ochranná známka nebo
ochranná známka společnosti Microsoft Corporation v USA a/nebo v
jiných zemích.
Mac® a macOS® jsou ochranné známky společnosti Apple Inc.,
registrované v USA a dalších zemích.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro jsou registrované ochranné
známky společnosti Serato Audio Research Limited.
Značka DJUCED a grafické prvky DJUCED jsou majetkem
společnosti Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO je ochranná známka společnosti Steinberg Media Technologies
GmbH.
Všechny ostatní ochranné známky a obchodní názvy jsou v tomto
dokumentu uvedeny a jsou majetkem příslušných vlastníků. Ilustrace
nejsou závazné. Obsah, vzory a specifikace v tomto dokumentu se
mohou měnit bez předchozího upozornění a mohou se v jednotlivých
zemích lišit.




                                 100
Autorská práva
Žádná část této příručky nesmí být reprodukována, shrnuta, přenášena,
přepisována, ukládána do vyhledávacího systému nebo překládána do
jakéhokoli jazyka nebo počítačového jazyka, v jakékoli formě nebo
jakýmikoli prostředky, elektronickými, mechanickými, magnetickými,
ručními,   prostřednictvím   fotokopií,   záznamů   nebo   jinými,   bez
výslovného písemného souhlasu Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                   101
DJUCED® a Serato DJ Lite licenční
smlouva s koncovým uživatelem
Pečlivě si přečtěte licenční smlouvu zobrazenou při instalaci DJUCED®
a Serato DJ Lite.




                                102
Kullanıcı Kılavuzu
                      İÇİNDEKİLER

1.   KUTU İÇERİĞİ ............................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TEKNİK ÖZELLİKLER ................................ 10

3.   ÖZELLİKLER ............................................... 13

     Genel bakış......................................................13

     Deck'ler ............................................................14

     Miksleme ..........................................................32

     Konektörler......................................................43

4.   KURULUM ................................................... 46

     Bağlantılar .......................................................46

     Yazılımı indirme ..............................................49

5.   MİKSİNİZİ CANLANDIRMA......................... 54

     Modlar ve pedler .............................................54

     Scratch atma ...................................................70

     Filtreler .............................................................71
6.   ÇOK KANALLI SES KARTI ........................ 72

     Hoparlörler için Master çıkışı (çıkış 1-2) .....73

     Kulaklık çıkışı (çıkış 3-4) ................................74

     Mikrofon girişi .................................................76

7.   UYUMLULUK ............................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO ve Windows® kontrol paneli ...............78

     Donanım yazılımı güncellemesi ...................81

     Kontrol panelinde DJ kontrol ünitesini test

     etme ..................................................................82

8.   DEMO MODU ............................................... 86

9.   SIKÇA SORULAN SORULAR (SSS) .......... 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7; iki motorlu disk, video
eğitimleri ve DJUCED ile Serato DJ Lite yazılımlarının
entegrasyonu sayesinde vinil pikap sanatını öğrenmeyi
kolaylaştırmak için tasarlanmış çok özellikli bir kontrol
ünitesidir.




 Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7; Serato DJ Lite için
 lisans içerir, Serato DJ Pro için lisans içermez.
 Serato       DJ   Lite   hiçbir       zaman   sınırı   olmadan
 kullanılabilir.
 Serato DJ Lite yerine Serato DJ Pro'yu yüklerseniz
 Serato DJ Pro, DJControl Inpulse T7 ile deneme süresi
 boyunca çalışır. Bu deneme süresinin sonunda Serato
 DJ Pro'yu kullanmaya devam etmek isterseniz Serato
 DJ Pro lisansı satın almanız gerekir.



                                   4
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesiyle miks
yapmayı öğrenmenize yardımcı olmak için çok çeşitli
video eğitimleri mevcuttur:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (İngilizce):
        o DJUCED'da          simgesine tıklayarak.
        o DJUCED web sitesinde.
  − Hercules Audio YouTube kanalı (İngilizce).
  − The DJ Coach, kurslar DJ HAPA tarafından
    Serato DJ Lite'ta verilmektedir (İngilizce).




                              5
 1.     Kutu içeriği

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − İki vinil plak (7 inç / 17,8 cm)
 − İki keçe mat
 − Örgülü USB kablosu
 − Çıkarılabilir güç kablosu
 − Güç adaptörü
 − Kullanma kılavuzu
 − Garanti belgesi




                             6
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesinin
üzerinde    bulunan    VU       göstergelerini   kaplayan
koruyucu filmleri çıkarabilirsiniz. VU göstergelerinin
kullanımını etkilemediğinden koruyucu filmleri yerinde
de bırakabilirsiniz.




                            7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − İki vinil plak (7 inç / 17,8 cm)
 − İki keçe mat
 − İki ince keçe mat
 − Örgülü USB kablosu
 − Çıkarılabilir güç kablosu
 − Güç adaptörü
 − Taşıma çantası
 − Kullanma kılavuzu
 − Garanti belgesi




Hercules    DJControl     Inpulse T7       Premium      Edition
kontrol ünitesinin üzerinde bulunan VU göstergelerini
kaplayan     koruyucu     filmleri      çıkarabilirsiniz.   VU
göstergelerinin kullanımını etkilemediğinden koruyucu
filmleri yerinde de bırakabilirsiniz.




                             9
  2.        Teknik özellikler
Sistem gereksinimleri:
  − DJUCED:
     https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
     (İngilizce)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
     https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
     uirements#system-requirements (İngilizce)


Audio çıkışları:
             o Çözünürlük = 24-bit
             o Örnekleme frekansı = 44,1 kHz


Hoparlörler için Master çıkışları (çıkış 1-2), bağlantı:
  − İki RCA konektörü:
             o Maksimum çıkış gücü = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − İki XLR konektörü (dengeli):
             o Maksimum çıkış gücü = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Bir 3,5 mm stereo mini-jak konektörü ve bir 6,35 mm
stereo jak konektörü üzerinden kulaklık çıkışı (çıkış 3-4):
             o Maksimum çıkış gücü = 32Ω için 5 dBU
               @ 1 kHz


6,35 mm jak konektörü üzerinden mikrofon girişi
(dengeli)


                             10
                      Güç kaynağı
− Sadece      kullanıcı   kılavuzunda   belirtilen   güç
  kaynağını kullanın.
− Güç kaynağını sadece güç kaynağının anma değeri
  plakasında belirtilen şebeke gerilimi ve frekansıyla
  kullanın.




                           11
            Güç kaynağı ile ilgili bilgiler
 Yayınlanan                    Değer          Birim
    bilgi
Üretici firmanın         GUILLEMOT
adı veya ticari       CORPORATION S.A.
   markası            414 196 758 R.C.S.
  İş telefonu              Vannes
    Adres          2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                        56910 Carentoir
                               Fransa
  Model adı             A481-1852590D
 Giriş gerilimi            100 - 240           V
   Giriş AC                    50 - 60         Hz
   frekansı
 Çıkış gerilimi                 18,5          V DC
  Çıkış akımı                   2,6            A
  Çıkış gücü                    47,9           W
Ortalama aktif                  87,8           %
  verimlilik
 Düşük yükte                    87,8           %
(%10) verimlilik
 Yüksüz güç                     0,10           W
  tüketimi




                          12
 3.     Özellikler

Genel bakış




 1. Motorlu disk
 2. Aktarma düğmeleri (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Loop kontrolleri (Loop)
 4. Parça       seçme     kontrolleri   (Browser,     Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempo fader (Pitch fader)
 6. Pedler ve modlar
 7. Çalma modları
 8. İzleme,     ses    seviyeleri   (Master,   Kulaklık   ve
      Mikrofon) ve Beatmatch Guide
 9. Miksleme kısmı (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mikser (Crossfader, ses seviyesi fader'ları)
 11. Efektler




                            13
Deck'ler

  1. Motorlu disk




Keçe mat: Motorlu disk ile vinil plak arasına yerleştirilir.
Vinil plağın diske sürtmesini engeller ve plak çalınırken
titreşimi azaltır.




 Vinil plağı takmadan önce motorlu diskin üzerine
 mutlaka her zaman keçe matı yerleştirin.




                            14
Vinil plak: Scratch atmanızı, çalmayı hızlandırmanızı
veya yavaşlatmanızı ve parça içinde hareket etmenizi
sağlar.
Vinil plak etiketinin üzerindeki çizgi, miks yapmak ve
scratch atmak için bir referans noktasıdır (yani bir
işarettir).


Yapılan işlem iki kritere bağlıdır:
   − parçanın çalıyor veya duraklatılmış olması;
   − vinil plağa dokunduğunuz nokta (üst (top) veya
     halka (ring)).


                             Üst




      Halka




                             15
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro ile vinil plak hareketleri:


   Çal/Duraklat        Motorlu disk       SHIFT düğmesi
        Çal                 Üst                   -
                       Scratch atma
        Çal              Üst/Halka            Basılı tut
         Parça içinde hızlıca hareket edebilirsiniz
        Çal                Halka                  -
      Çalmayı hızlandırabilir veya yavaşlatabilirsiniz
     Duraklat            Üst/Halka                -
        Parça içinde yavaşça hareket edebilirsiniz
     Duraklat            Üst/Halka            Basılı tut
         Parça içinde hızlıca hareket edebilirsiniz




                            16
DJUCED ile vinil plak hareketleri:


   Çal/Duraklat       Motorlu disk      SHIFT düğmesi
        Çal                Üst                  -
                      Scratch atma
        Çal             Üst/Halka           Basılı tut
        Parça içinde hızlıca hareket edebilirsiniz
        Çal               Halka                 -
     Çalmayı hızlandırabilir veya yavaşlatabilirsiniz
     Duraklat             Halka                 -
       Parça içinde yavaşça hareket edebilirsiniz




                           17
Motorlu disk: Parçanın çalmasını ve tempo fader ile
ayarlanan tempoya göre parçanın hızını kontrol eden
vinil plağı sürer.


Beatmatch Guide işlevi etkinken BEAT ALIGN görsel
kılavuzları, iki parçanın beat ızgaralarını hizalamak için
motorlu disk halkasını (yani kenarını) hangi yöne
çevirmeniz gerektiğini gösterir. İki kırmızı ok yanmıyorsa
beat ızgaraları hizalanmış demektir.


Beatmatch Guide işlevi ile ilgili daha fazla bilgi için lütfen
Beatmatch Guide kısmını okuyun.




 Disklerin motor özelliği devre dışı bırakılamaz.




 − Motorlu disk dönerken tahrik sistemine zarar
    vermemek için elinizle çok uzun süre tutarak
    durdurmaktan kaçının.
 − Vinil plağı motorlu diskin üzerine yerleştirirken
    zorlamayın. Vinil plağın ortasına zarar verebilirsiniz.




                             18
  2. Aktarma düğmeleri




SHIFT: kombine kontrol. Örneğin:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): Parçanın tonalitesini
    kilitler.
  − SHIFT + IN: DJUCED®'da aktif loop'un boyutunu
    ikiye böler.


SYNC: İki parçanın BPM (dakikadaki beat sayısı)
değerlerinin otomatik senkronizasyonunu açar veya
kapatır.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
       o DJUCED'da: Deck'i master senkronizasyon
           (Master Sync) deck'i yapar.
       o Serato DJ Lite'da: Deck'te senkronizasyonu
           kapatır.




                             19
CUE: Belirli bir anı tanımlamak için parçaya bir Cue
noktası ekler veya deck çalma başını Cue noktasının
olduğu yere taşır.
  − Parça     duraklatıldı:    Cue    noktasını    parçanın
    durdurulduğu yere ekler.
  − Parça çalıyor: Parçanın çalmasını durdurur ve deck
    çalma başını Cue noktasına taşır.
      o DJUCED'da tanımlanmış Cue noktası yoksa
         CUE düğmesine basmak çalmayı durdurur ve
         çalma başının olduğu yere bir Cue noktası
         ekler.
      o Serato DJ Lite'da tanımlanmış Cue noktası
         yoksa    CUE     düğmesine      basmak    çalmayı
         durdurur ve parçanın başına bir Cue noktası
         ekler.
  − CUE + PLAY: Çalma başını Cue noktasına taşır ve
    parçayı o noktadan itibaren çalar.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o DJUCED'da:           Çalma    başını      parçanın
         başlangıcına taşır ve çalmayı durdurur.
      o Serato DJ Lite'da: Çalma başını parçanın
         başlangıcına taşır ve çalmayı başlatır.


Çal/Duraklat: Parçayı çalar veya duraklatır.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: Serato DJ Lite'da çalma başını Cue
    noktasına taşır ve parçayı bu işaretten itibaren
    çalar.

                              20
  3. Loop kontrolleri




AUTOLOOP enkoderi:
  − Enkodere basın: Loop'un çalınmasını açar veya
     kapatır.
  − Enkoderi çevirin: Loop uzunluğunu ayarlar.


IN/OUT: Giriş noktası (IN) ve çıkış noktasını (OUT)
seçerek bir loop'u etkinleştirir.
Loop aktifken (yani etkinken):
  − IN düğmesine basın (düğme yanıp söner) ve
     loop'un başlangıcını taşımak için motorlu diski
     çevirin.
  − OUT düğmesine basın (düğme yanıp söner) ve
     loop'un sonunu taşımak için motorlu diski çevirin.
Loop'tan çıkmak için AUTOLOOP enkoderine basın.
DJUCED®'da:
  − SHIFT + IN: Aktif loop'un boyutunu ikiye böler.
  − SHIFT + OUT: Aktif loop'un boyutunu ikiyle çarpar.
  − IN düğmesine uzun basın: Dört beat'lik bir loop'u
     etkinleştirir.



                              21
  4. Parça seçme kontrolleri




BROWSER enkoderi*: Enkoderi sola (yukarı) veya
sağa (aşağı) çevirerek müzik kitaplığınızda ve parça
listenizde gezinmenizi sağlar.
Klasörleri seçmek ve seçilen parçayı hedef deck'e
yüklemek için enkodere basın.


Aydınlatılan halka:
  − DJUCED'da tempo için master parçanın enerji
    seviyesini gösterir.
  − Serato DJ Lite'da ritmi gösterir. Işık parçanın
    beat'ine göre yanıp sönen:
           o Kırmızı: İlk beat'i gösterir.
           o Mavi: İzleyen üç beat'i gösterir.




                            22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − DJUCED'da miksiniz için sıradaki en iyi parçaları
    öneren panoyu gösterir.
    Önerilen parça listesinde gezinmek için BROWSER
    enkoderini çevirin.
    Parça seçmek için BROWSER enkoderine basın.
    Bu deck'te zaten yüklü olan parça duraklatılmalıdır.
    Önerilen parçaların enerji seviyesini ayarlamak için
    ASSIST./PREP. düğmesine basın ve enkoderi
    çevirin.
  − Serato DJ Lite'da o anda çalınmakta olan parçayı
    Prepare (Hazırla) listesine ekler.
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: Prepare (Hazırla) panelini
    açar.


BACK*: DJUCED ve Serato DJ Lite'da ağaç yapısı
içinde gezinmenizi sağlar.
  − DJUCED'da Kitaplık sütununa dönmek için SHIFT
    ve BACK düğmesine basın.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.
                            23
  5. Tempo fader




Tempo fader: BPM sayısını ayarlayarak parçanın çalma
hızını ayarlar.
  − Yukarı kaldırma: Parçayı yavaşlatır.
  − Aşağı indirme: Parçayı hızlandırır.
  − Tempo fader ortada: parçanın orijinal hızı. Beyaz
     LED yanar.


Beatmatch     Guide      işlevi    etkinleştirildiğinde   TEMPO
görsel    kılavuzları,      parçayı       yavaşlatmak       veya
hızlandırmak için tempo fader'ı yukarı mı yoksa aşağı mı
almanız gerektiğini gösterir. İki kırmızı ok kapalı ise o
deck'teki tempo, diğer deck'teki tempo ile aynıdır.


Beatmatch Guide işlevi ile ilgili daha fazla bilgi için lütfen
Beatmatch Guide kısmını okuyun.




                                  24
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da SYNC modu
açıldığında SHIFT düğmesine basıp aynı anda tempo
fader'ı hareket ettirmeniz genliği korurken tempo fader'ın
değerlerini değiştirmenizi sağlar.


Örneğin ±%8 tempo skalası veya %16 genlik ile tempo
fader'ın değerlerini değiştirerek %0 (maksimum) ila -
%16'yı (minimum) kapsayabilirsiniz, bu da yine ortada -
%8 ile %16 genlikle sonuçlanır.




                            25
RANGE*:       Tempo      fader'ların   tempo   skalasını
değiştirmenizi sağlar.
   − DJUCED'da: ±%6, ±%8, ±%10, ±%12, ±%16,
      ±%20, ±%25, ±%33, ±%50.
   − Serato DJ Lite'da: ±%8, ±%16, ±%50.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): Parçanın tonalitesini
kilitler.
Tonalitenin kilitlendiğinden emin olmak için SHIFT
düğmesine basın. RANGE düğmesi yanar.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.
                            26
  6. Pedler ve modlar




Mod düğmeleri: Sekize kadar modu açmanızı sağlar.
Ana modu açmak için HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3
veya SAMPLER 4 düğmesine basın.
İkinci bir modu (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7 ve MODE
8),   açmak için SHIFT ve HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2,
STEMS 3 veya SAMPLER 4 düğmesine aynı anda
basın. Mod düğmesi yanıp söner.
Pedlerde açılan modlar, kullanılan yazılıma bağlı olarak
değişir.


DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro ile farklı
modlar arasında daha fazla bilgi için lütfen Modlar ve
pedler kısmını okuyun.


Performans pedleri: Bir ped bir işlem gerçekleştirir.




                           27
  7. Çalma modları




INSTRUMENTAL: Parçanın sadece Melodi, Bas ve
Bateri kısımlarını çalmanızı sağlar. Bu, Stems modu için
bir kısa yoldur.
  − Parçanın sadece Melodi, Bas ve Bateri kısımlarını
    çalmak için INSTRUMENTAL düğmesine basın.
    Düğme yanar.
  − Parçanın tüm kısımlarını (Vokaller, Melodi, Bas ve
    Bateri) çalmaya devam etmek için INSTRUMENTAL
    düğmesine tekrar basın. Düğmenin ışığı kapanır.




                          28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: Slip modunu açar. Slip
modunda, bir efekt veya loop uyguladığınızda, bir Cue
noktası    yerleştirdiğinizde    veya   motorlu   diskleri
kullandığınızda deck çalma başı arka planda ilerlemeye
devam     eder.   Efekt   uygulamayı    durdurduğunuzda,
parçanın çalmaya devam etmiş olması durumunda
olacağı noktadan çalma devam eder.
Slip modunun açıldığından emin olmak için SHIFT
düğmesine basın. INSTRUMENTAL düğmesi yanar.




Serato DJ Lite'da Slip modu bulunmaz.
Serato DJ Pro'da Slip modu bulunur.




                            29
VOCAL: Parçanın sadece Vokaller kısmını çalmanızı
sağlar. Bu, Stems modu için bir kısa yoldur.
  − Parçanın sadece Vokaller kısmını çalmak için
    VOCAL düğmesine basın. Düğme yanar.
  − Parçanın tüm kısımlarını (Vokaller, Melodi, Bas ve
    Bateri)   çalmaya    devam    etmek    için   VOCAL
    düğmesine tekrar basın. Düğmenin ışığı kapanır.


SHIFT + VOCAL: Quantize modunu açar. Nicemleme,
ızgarada bir sonraki beat'de bir işlem uygulamanızı
sağlar (parçayı çalma, bir Cue noktası yerleştirme, bir
loop başlatma…).
Quantize modunun açıldığından emin olmak için SHIFT
düğmesine basın. VOCAL düğmesi yanar.




Serato DJ Lite'da Quantize modu bulunmaz.
Serato DJ Pro'da Quantize modu bulunur.




                           30
      (pitch bend -) /           (pitch bend +): Bu deck'te
çalmakta olan parçanın beat ızgarasını diğer deck'in
beat ızgarası ile manüel olarak hizalamanızı sağlar.
  − Deck'i    anlık     olarak    yavaşlatmak    için
    düğmesine basın ve basılı tutun.
  − Deck'i    anlık     olarak    hızlandırmak   için
    düğmesine basın ve basılı tutun.




Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da SHIFT +              ve
SHIFT +             belirli modlarda ayarları yapmanızı
sağlar (Ayarlar).




                             31
Miksleme

  8. İzleme, ses seviyesi ve Beatmatch Guide




MIC ses seviyesi: Mikrofonun ses seviyesini ayarlar.


MIC aydınlatılan halka: Audio sinyalinin seviyesini
gösterir (VU göstergesi).
  − Kapalı: Audio sinyali yok.
  − Yeşil: Audio sinyali çalınıyor.
  − Kırmızı: Audio sinyali doygunluğa ulaştı.


MASTER ses seviyesi: Hoparlörlerinizde çalan miksin
ses seviyesini ayarlar.


MASTER VU       göstergesi:      Hoparlörler   için   Master
çıkışının (RCA veya XLR) audio sinyali seviyesini
gösterir.
                            32
HEADPHONES ses seviyesi:
 −       /       : Cue çıkışı ile (deck 1 ve 2 izlemesi) Mix
     çıkışını (Master çıkışı) miksleyerek kulaklığınızda
     çalınmakta olan sinyali ayarlar.
       o Sadece izlemeyi dinlemek için deck 1 ve 2
         İzleme düğmelerine basın. Düğmeler yanar.
         Daha sonra düğmeyi Cue konumuna getirin.
       o Sadece Master çıkışını dinlemek için Master
         İzleme      düğmesine      basın.   Düğme      yanar.
         Kulaklığınızda çalınmakta olan miksi ayarlamak
         için daha sonra düğmeyi Mix konumuna getirin.
 −           : Kulaklık çıkışının ses seviyesini ayarlar.




                               33
İzleme: Kulaklığınızda çalınan ses kaynağını seçer.
  −         (MASTER VU göstergesinin altında bulunur):
      Dinleyici için sesli çalınan miksin sesini çalar.
  −         * (BEATMATCH GUIDE düğmesinin her iki
      tarafında bulunur):Cue/Mix düğmesi Cue konumuna
      alındığında deck 1 veya deck 2'nin sesini çalar.
Bu deck'te çalınmakta olan parçanın beat ızgarasını
ayarlamak için Serato DJ Lite'da SHIFT ve                   *
(BEATMATCH            GUIDE        düğmesinin        yanında)
düğmelerine basın. Beat ızgarası düzenleme modundan
çıkmak için Edit Grid (Izgarayı düzenle) düğmesine
tıklayın.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: Tempoyu ayarlamak ve iki
parçanın beat ızgarasını hizalamak için ışık kılavuzlarını
açar veya kapatır. Deck başına dört kırmızı ok vardır.




DJUCED®        deck'lerden    birini    ana   senkronizasyon
(Master Sync) deck'i ve diğerini bağımlı deck olarak
tanımlar. Kırmızı oklar sadece bağımlı deck'te yanar,
çünkü    bu     deck    ana     senkronizasyon      deck'inin
temposunu takip eder.
Serato    DJ    Lite   bir   ana       senkronizasyon   deck'i
tanımlamaz. Kırmızı oklar her iki deck'te de yanar.




                              35
− TEMPO görsel          kılavuzları:         Tempo        fader'ının
 sağında bulunan iki kırmızı oktan biri yanarsa bu
 durum,      bu    deck'te        çalmakta         olan   parçanın
 temposunun (yani dakikadaki beat sayısı) diğer
 deck'in temposundan farklı olduğunu gösterir.
 Oklar, diğer deck'teki tempo ile eşleştirmek için
 çalmakta olan parçanın temposunu ayarlamak için
 tempo fader'ını hareket ettirmeniz gereken yönü
 gösterir.
        o Üst ok yanıyor: Tempo fader'ını yukarı
             hareket        ettirin.    Bu     işlem      tempoyu
             yavaşlatır.
        o Alt ok yanıyor: Tempo fader'ını aşağı
             hareket        ettirin.    Bu     işlem      tempoyu
             hızlandırır.
        o Oklar yanmıyor: Deck'in temposu master
             senkronizasyon            deck'inin     temposu     ile
             aynıdır.




                               36
− BEAT ALIGN görsel kılavuzları: Motorlu disk altında
  bulunan iki kırmızı oktan biri yanarsa bu durum, bu
  deck'te çalmakta olan parçanın beat'lerinin diğer
  deck'in beat'leri ile hizalanmadığını gösterir.
  Oklar, çalmakta olan parçanın beat'lerini diğer
  deck'in beat'leri ile hizalamak için motorlu diski
  çevirmeniz gereken yönü gösterir.
         o Sol ok yanıyor: Motorlu diski saat yönünde
           çevirin. Bu işlem çalma hızını artırır.
         o Sağ ok yanıyor: Motorlu diski saatin aksi
           yönünde çevirin. Bu işlem çalma hızını
           azaltır.
         o Oklar yanmıyor: Deck'in beat'leri diğer
           deck'in beat'leri ile hizalanmıştır.




                          37
  9. Miksleme kısmı




GAIN düğmesi*: Kazancı (yani ses seviyesi fader'ından
önceki ses seviyesi) ayarlar.


3 bantlı ekolayzer (EQ)*: EQ şiddetini kontrol eder. Her
bant ile ilişkili bir düğme bulunur: HIGH, MID ve LOW.


FILTER düğmesi*: Çift filtrenin (yüksek geçiren ve alçak
geçiren) frekansını ayarlar.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.
                            38
  10.       Mikser




VU göstergesi: Deck 1 ve 2'nin audio sinyali seviyesini
gösterir.


Ses seviyesi fader'ı*: Deck'in ses seviyesini ayarlar.


Crossfader: Deck'lerden birinin ses seviyesini artırırken
diğer deck'in ses seviyesini düşürerek iki parça arasında
geçiş yapmanızı sağlar.
  − Crossfader en solda: Sadece deck 1'deki parçayı
     duyarsınız.
  − Crossfader en sağda: Sadece deck 2'deki parçayı
     duyarsınız.
  − Crossfader ortada: Deck 1 ve 2'deki parçaları aynı
     anda duyarsınız.

                           39
Eğri anahtarı: Crossfader eğrisini değiştirmenizi sağlar.
  −       (mix): iki deck'in kademeli mikslenmesi.
  −       (scratch): iki deck'in çok hızlı mikslenmesi.
  −       (kapalı): crossfader kapalı, sadece ses seviyesi
      fader'ları ile miks yapmak için.




Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da crossfader
ayarlarını değiştirebilirsiniz. Ayarlar'a, ardından Mixer'e
gidin:
 − Power (Güç): scratch atmak için hızlı eğri.
 − Linear (Doğrusal): miks yapmak için kademeli eğri.
 − Reverse (Ters): Crossfader'ın yönünü ters çevirir,
   "Hamster" modu olarak da bilinir.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.

                              40
  11.    Efektler




Efekt rafını görüntülemek için:
  − DJUCED'da:                         simgesine tıklayın.
  − Serato DJ Lite'da                      simgesine tıklayın.


Efekt düğmeleri                     /     /        *: Efekt rafından bir efekt
seçmenizi sağlar. Düğme yanar.
Bir efekti açmak için performans kolunu kullanın.
Düğmelerle            /     /            ilişkili efektleri değiştirmek için
efekt rafından yeni bir efekt seçin. Serato DJ Lite ve
Serato DJ Pro'da efekt listesini görüntülemek için
SHIFT ve          ,             veya               düğmesine de basabilir,
ardından liste içinde gezinmek ve yeni bir efekt seçmek
için SHIFT ve                   ,             veya        düğmesine tekrar
basabilirsiniz.




Serato DJ Lite'da:
− Aynı    anda            birden              fazla    efekti   birleştirmek
  mümkündür.

                                              41
− Soldaki üç efekt      /    /     sol deck'e (Deck 1)
  uygulanırken sağdaki üç efekt           /    /     sağ
  deck'e (Deck 2) uygulanır.
Serato DJ Pro'da üç efekt düğmelik iki grup, iki sanal
deck'e uygulanır.


Performans kolu*: Düğmelere           ,       veya    yüklü
efekti etkinleştirmenizi sağlar. Üç farklı konum vardır:
  − HOLD: Kol bu konumdayken efekti sürekli olarak
      etkinleştirir.
  − ON: Kol bu konumdayken efekti anlık olarak
      etkinleştirir.
  − Orta konum: Efekt devre dışı bırakılır.


DEPTH düğmesi: Efektin yoğunluğunu ayarlar.


  /      düğmeleri: Müzikle senkronize efektin döngü
süresini ayarlar.




DJUCED bu işleve sahip değildir.




*İşlev, deck 1 ve 2'de aynıdır.

                            42
Konektörler




  12.     Hoparlörler için Master çıkışı (çıkış 1-2)
  13.     Dengeli mikrofon girişi
  14.     USB-B 2.0 portu
  15.     POWER düğmesi
  16.     Güç adaptörü konektörü
  17.     Kulaklık çıkışı (çıkış 3-4)


Hoparlörler için Master çıkışı (çıkış 1-2): Aktif
hoparlörler bağlamanızı sağlar.
Format: 2 x dengesiz RCA (Cinch) ve 2 x dengeli XLR.


Dengeli    mikrofon     girişi:    Dengeli   veya   dengesiz
mikrofon bağlamanızı sağlar.
Format: 6,35 mm jak.




                              43
USB-B 2.0 portu: Kontrol ünitesini bir bilgisayara
bağlamanızı sağlar.


POWER (Güç) düğmesi: DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol
ünitesini açıp kapatmanızı sağlar.


Güç adaptörü konektörü: Güç kablosunu bağlamanızı
ve DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesini adaptörü
kullanarak elektrik prizine bağlamanızı sağlar.


Kulaklık çıkışı (çıkış 3-4): Parçaları izlemek için kulaklık
bağlamanızı sağlar.
Format: 3,5 mm stereo mini-jak konektör ve 6,35 mm
stereo jak konektör.




                            44
DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesini yükseltmek ve
kabloları altından geçirmek için dört toplanabilir ayağı
açın.




− DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesini taşımadan
  önce ayakları toplayın.
− DJControl       Inpulse T7      kontrol      ünitesini
  kullanmıyorken ayakları toplayın.
− Ayakları açıldığında DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol
  ünitesine 5 kg ağırlığı / 50 newton kuvveti aşacak
  şekilde bastırmayın.




                            45
 4.        Kurulum

Bağlantılar
 1. Güç    adaptörünü    DJControl     Inpulse T7     kontrol
   ünitesine bağlayın.
 2. Güç kablosunu güç adaptörünü bağlayın ve elektrik
   prizine takın.
 3. USB    kablosunu     DJControl     Inpulse T7     kontrol
   ünitesine ve bilgisayara bağlayın.
 4. DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesi üzerindeki
   POWER düğmesine basın. Düğme içeri girer.
 5. Hoparlörlerin kapalı olduklarından ve harici bir
   amfiye bağlılarsa amfinin kapalı olduğundan emin
   olun.    Aktif   hoparlörlerin    girişlerini   DJControl
   Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesinin hoparlörler için Master
   çıkışlarına (2 x RCA veya 2 x XLR) bağlayın.
 6. MASTER      ses    seviyesini   DJControl      Inpulse T7
   kontrol ünitesinde minimum seviyeye ayarlayın,
   ardından hoparlörleri açın.
 7. Kulaklığı boynunuzun etrafına (kulaklarınıza değil)
   yerleştirin, ardından kulaklığı 3,5 mm mini-jak
   konektöre veya 6,35 mm jak konektöre bağlayın.
 8. Mikrofonu Mikrofon girişine bağlayın (isteğe bağlı).




                            46
                      Güç kaynağı
− Sadece      kullanıcı   kılavuzunda   belirtilen   güç
  kaynağını kullanın.
− Güç kaynağını sadece güç kaynağının anma değeri
  plakasında belirtilen şebeke gerilimi ve frekansıyla
  kullanın.


                            47
− Her iki çıkış formatını (XLR ve RCA) aynı anda
  kullanmak mümkündür — örneğin bir çıkış çiftini PA
  sistemine ve ikinci çıkış çiftini izleme hoparlörlerine
  bağlayabilirsiniz.
− DJControl      Inpulse     T7       kontrol     ünitesini
  bilgisayarınıza her bağladığınızda, Vegas Mode adı
  verilen bir LED'li aydınlatma serisi başlar. Vegas
  Mode    dört   aşamada         gerçekleşerek    LED'lerin
  tümünün     yakılmasını   pedlerde     ve     BROWSER
  enkoderlerinin arkadan aydınlatmalı halkalarında
  olası farklı renklerin sergilenmesini sağlar.




                            48
Yazılımı indirme

DJUCED

 1. Lütfen https://www.djuced.com/hercules adresini
   ziyaret edin.
 2. DJUCED®'ı indirerek yükleyin.
 3. Lütfen şu adresi ziyaret edin:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (İngilizce).
 4. Bilgisayarınızın işletim sistemine yönelik sürücü
   paketini indirip yükleyin.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®,        DJControl     Inpulse   T7'yi    WASAPI
    moduna göre gecikmeyi azaltan ve genellikle daha
    kararlı   olan     ASIO      modunda     kullanmak     için
    sürücüleri yüklemenizi gerektirir.
    Sürücüler, DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitenizi
    test   etmenizi     ve    hem     Windows®       hem    de
    macOS®'de          donanım        yazılımı       sürümünü
    doğrulamanızı sağlar.
 5. DJUCED yazılımını başlatın. DJControl Inpulse
   T7'nin başarıyla algılandığını ve kullanıma hazır
   olduğunu gösteren bir pencere açılır.




                              49
 Yazılımı ilk kez çalıştırdığınızda DJUCED® size
 rehberlik ederek kulaklık ve aktif hoparlörlerinizi
 bağlamanızı sağlar (ya da harici aktif hoparlörleriniz
 yoksa       bilgisayarınızın        dahili     hoparlörlerini
 kullanmanıza olanak tanır). Başlamak için ekrandaki
 bilgileri adım adım izleyin.


Audio ayarları:
DJUCED®'da ses kartı ayarlarını değiştirmek için ekranın
sağ üst kısmındaki dişli simgesine            tıklayın. Ayarlar
menüsü açılır.
Ses kartını seçmek için Audio (Ses) sekmesini seçin,
kulaklık ve hoparlör çıkışlarını atayın.


Windows® için standart ayarlar aşağıda verilmiştir:
  − Audio device (Ses aygıtı): DJControl Inpulse T7
     ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Çıkış):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                                50
macOS® için standart ayarlar aşağıda verilmiştir:
  − Audio device (Ses aygıtı): DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Çıkış):
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                           51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Lütfen        şu          adresi          ziyaret         edin:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Serato DJ Lite'ı indirerek yükleyin.
 3. Lütfen şu adresi ziyaret edin:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (İngilizce).
 4. Bilgisayarınızın işletim sistemine yönelik sürücü
   paketini indirip yükleyin.
             o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
             o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®,         DJControl     Inpulse     T7'yi    WASAPI
    moduna göre gecikmeyi azaltan ve genellikle daha
    kararlı    olan     ASIO      modunda       kullanmak      için
    sürücüleri yüklemenizi gerektirir.
    Sürücüler, DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitenizi
    test     etmenizi    ve    hem     Windows®         hem     de
    macOS®'de           donanım        yazılımı         sürümünü
    doğrulamanızı sağlar.




                               52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7; Serato DJ Lite için
lisans içerir, Serato DJ Pro için lisans içermez.
Serato     DJ     Lite   hiçbir    zaman   sınırı   olmadan
kullanılabilir.
Serato DJ Lite yerine Serato DJ Pro'yu yüklerseniz
Serato DJ Pro, DJControl Inpulse T7 ile deneme
süresi boyunca çalışır. Bu deneme süresinin sonunda
Serato DJ Pro'yu kullanmaya devam etmek isterseniz
Serato DJ Pro lisansı satın almanız gerekir.




                              53
  5.     Miksinizi canlandırma
Miksinizi canlandırmanın farklı yolları vardır.



Modlar ve pedler

Pedler

DJUCED'da ped 1-8, o anda açık olan moda karşılık
gelen işlemleri gerçekleştirir.


Serato DJ Lite'da ped 1-4, o anda açık olan moda
karşılık gelen işlemleri gerçekleştirir. Ped 5-8 aşağıdaki
işlemleri gerçekleştirir:
  − Ped 5: Reverse (geriye doğru çalma)
  − Ped 6: geri alma
  − Ped 7: hızlı ileri alma
  − Ped 8: Censor. Bu işlem, ped basılı tutulurken
     parçayı    geriye      doğru   çalmanızı   sağlar.   Ped
     bırakıldığında, parçanın normal olarak çalmaya
     devam etmiş olması durumunda olacağı noktadan
     çalma devam eder. Bu, bir şarkıdaki belirgin dili
     maskelemek için kullanılabilir.




                               54
Pedlerde açılan modlar, kullanılan yazılıma bağlı olarak
değişir:


Modlar DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1        Hot Cue        Hot Cue          Hot Cue

   2       Loop Roll      Auto Loop        Auto Loop
   3         Stems          Stems            Stems
   4        Sampler        Sampler          Sampler
   5       TonePlay           –             Pitch Play
   6         PadFX            –             Loop Roll
   7       Slicer Loop   Manual Loop      Manual Loop
   8       BeatJump      Scratch Banks    Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro lisansı dahil değildir.




                             55
Hot Cue modu

Hot Cue noktası, parçada o noktayı kolayca yeniden
bulmak ve daha sonra anında oraya dönmek için
parçaya yerleştirdiğiniz bir işarettir (yer işareti gibi).


DJUCED'da parça başına sekiz Hot Cue noktası
yerleştirilebilir.


Serato DJ Lite'da parça başına dört Hot Cue noktası
yerleştirilebilir.
Serato DJ Pro'da parça başına sekiz Hot Cue noktası
yerleştirilebilir.


  1. Hot Cue moduna erişmek için HOT CUE 1
     düğmesine basın. HOT CUE 1 düğmesinin ışığı
     yanık kalır.
  2. Bir Hot Cue noktası yerleştirmek için bir pede basın.
  3. Parçayı bir Hot Cue noktasından itibaren çalmak
     için ilgili pede basın.
  4. Bir Hot Cue noktasını kaldırmak için SHIFT
     düğmesine ve pede aynı anda basın.




                               56
Loop modu




 DJUCED'da bu mod, Loop Roll moduna karşılık gelir.
 Bir loop uyguladığınızda deck çalma başı arka planda
 ilerlemeye    devam      eder.    Loop'u     devre    dışı
 bıraktığınızda, parçanın çalmaya devam etmiş olması
 durumunda olacağı noktadan çalma devam eder.
 Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da bu mod, Auto
 Loop moduna karşılık gelir.


Loop, parçanın tekrar tekrar çalınan bir kısmıdır.


  1. Loop moduna erişmek için LOOP 2 düğmesine
    basın. LOOP 2 düğmesinin ışığı yanık kalır.


DJUCED'da:
  2. Bir loop uygulamak için bir pede basın ve basılı
    tutun.
  3. Bir loop'u devreden çıkarmak için ilgili pedi bırakın.


Serato DJ Lite'da:
  2. Bir loop uygulamak için bir pede basın.
  3. Bir loop'u devreden çıkarmak için ilgili pede bası




                            57
Loop uzunluğu:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2     DJUCED           Serato DJ Lite

      Ped 1           Bir beat'in           1 beat
                       1/16'sı
      Ped 2         Bir beat'in 1/8'i       2 beat
      Ped 3             ¼ beat              4 beat
      Ped 4             ½ beat              8 beat
      Ped 5             1 beat                -
      Ped 6             2 beat                -
      Ped 7             4 beat                -
      Ped 8             8 beat                -




                        58
Stems modu

Stems modu bir parçayı "stems" adı verilen dört farklı
kısma (vokaller ve enstrümanlar) ayırmanızı sağlar.


  1. Stems moduna erişmek için STEMS 3 düğmesine
    basın. STEMS 3 düğmesinin ışığı yanık kalır.
  2. Ped 1-4'ün her biri bir stem ile ilişkilendirilir. Bir
    stem'in çalmasını durdurmak için ilgili pede basın.
    Pedin ışığı kapanır.
  3. Stem'i çalmaya devam etmek için ilgili pede basın.
    Ped yanar.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                    Stem

          Ped 1                        Vokaller
          Ped 2                        Melodi
          Ped 3                          Bas
          Ped 4                         Bateri




                           59
Bir parçada stems modunu ilk kez etkinleştirdiğinizde
ayırma her zaman anında gerçekleşmez. DJ yazılımı
parçayı analiz ederken ve farklı kısımları (vokaller,
melodi, bas, bateri) oluştururken bir kaç saniye
sürebilir.


Unutmamanız gereken şey, stems ayrımı yaptığınız
anla bunları çalarkenki an arasında yeteri kadar
zaman bırakmanızdır. Stems için farklı kısımlar
oluşturulduğunda stems çalımı hemen gerçekleşir.


Stems modunu kullanmak için güçlü bir bilgisayar
gerekir.




                          60
Sampler modu

Sample, o anda çalmakta olan parçanın üzerinde
çalınan kısa bir sestir: Bir kere (jingle) veya tekrar tekrar
(loop) çalınabilir.


DJUCED'da ped 1-8, çok katmanlı sampler'ın ilk 2
satırında bulunan sekiz sample'ı çalmanızı sağlar.
Çok katmanlı sampler'ı görüntülemek için DJUCED'da
ekranın sol üst kısmındaki açılır menüden 2Decks
Horizontal + 2 Samplers öğesini seçin.


Serato DJ Lite'da ped 1-4, bir sample çalmanızı sağlar.
Sample panelini görüntülemek için Serato DJ Lite'da
simgesine tıklayın.


  1. Sampler     moduna    erişmek     için   SAMPLER      4
     düğmesine basın. SAMPLER 4 düğmesinin ışığı
     yanık kalır.
  2. Bir sample'ı çalmak için bir pede basın.
  3. Sample'ı çalmayı durdurmak için SHIFT düğmesine
     ve ilgili pede aynı anda basın.




                             61
Mod 5




Serato DJ Lite'da mod 5 (TonePlay) yoktur.
Serato DJ Pro, Pitch 'n Time eklentisiyle birlikte,
TonePlay modu ile aynı prensini kullanarak çalışan bir
Pitch Play modu sunar.


DJUCED'da mod 5, TonePlay moduna karşılık gelir. Bu
mod, bir Hot Cue noktasını farklı tonlarda yeniden
çalmanızı sağlar.


  1. Hot Cue modunu açın, ardından bir Hot Cue noktası
    seçin.
  2. Mod 5'e erişmek için SHIFT ve HOT CUE 1
    düğmelerine aynı anda basın. HOT CUE 1 düğmesi
    yanıp söner.
  3. Bir Hot Cue noktasının tonunu değiştirmek için ped
    2-8'den birine basın.
  4. Orijinal tona dönmek için ped 1'e basın.




                            62
Tonu değiştirme:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2           Ton

         Ped 1             Orijinal ton
         Ped 2                 +1
         Ped 3                 +2
         Ped 4                 +3
         Ped 5                 -1
         Ped 6                 -2
         Ped 7                 -3
         Ped 8                 -4




                      63
Mod 6




Serato DJ Lite'da mod 6 yoktur.


DJUCED'da mod 6, PadFX moduna karşılık gelir. Bu
mod, pedleri kullanarak efekt rafındaki efektleri kontrol
etmenizi sağlar.
Efekt, bazen sesini modifiye etmek için parçaya
uygulanan bir filtre veya filtre kombinasyonudur (eko,
yankı…).


Efekt rafını görüntülemek için    simgesine tıklayın.


  1. Mod 6'ya erişmek için SHIFT ve              LOOP 2
    düğmelerine aynı anda basın. LOOP 2 düğmesi
    yanıp söner.
  2. Bir işlem gerçekleştirmek için bir pede basın.
  3. Bir   efekti devreden çıkarmak      için ilgili pede
    (ped 1-3) basın.




                            64
Olası işlemler:

Deck 1 / Deck              Efektler

     Ped 1              Rafın efekt 1'i
     Ped 2             Rafın efekt 2'si
     Ped 3             Rafın efekt 3'ü
     Ped 4        Efekt rafını gösterir/gizler
     Ped 5         Rafta efekt 1'i değiştirir
     Ped 6        Rafta efekt 2'yi değiştirir
     Ped 7        Rafta efekt 3'ü değiştirir
     Ped 8                     -




                     65
Mod 7




DJUCED'da mod 7, Slicer Loop moduna karşılık gelir.
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da mod 7, Manual
Loop moduna karşılık gelir.


DJUCED'da mod 7, Slicer Loop moduna karşılık gelir.
Bu mod, aktif loop'u sekiz kısma bölmenizi sağlar.


  1. Mod 7'ye (Slicer Loop) erişmek için SHIFT ve
    STEMS 3 düğmelerine aynı anda basın. STEMS 3
    düğmesi yanıp söner.
  2. Bir kısmı bir loop olarak çalmak için bir pede basın
    ve basılı tutun.
  3. Bir kısmın çalmasını durdurmak için ilgili pedi
    bırakın.




                           66
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da mod 7, Manual Loop
moduna karşılık gelir. Bu mod, bir loop'u manüel olarak
etkinleştirmenizi sağlar.


  1. Mod 7'ye (Manual Loop) erişmek için SHIFT ve
    STEMS 3 düğmelerine aynı anda basın. STEMS 3
    düğmesi yanıp söner.
  2. Bir işlem gerçekleştirmek için bir pede basın.


Olası işlemler:

   Deck 1/2                      Efektler

     Ped 1        İlk basma: Giriş noktasını ayarlar (IN)
                  İkinci basma: Giriş noktasını değiştirir
                                    (IN)
     Ped 2           İlk basma: Çıkış noktasını ayarlar
                                   (OUT)
                  İkinci basma: Çıkış noktasını değiştirir

     Ped 3         Loop'a etkinleştirir/devre dışı bırakır
     Ped 4          Çalma başını loop'un başlangıcına
                       taşır ve loop'u çalar (Reloop)
 AUTOLOOP             Loop uzunluğunu artırır/azaltır.
  enkoderi




                            67
Mod 8




DJUCED'da mod 8, BeatJump moduna karşılık gelir.
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da mod 8, Scratch
Banks moduna karşılık gelir.


DJUCED'da mod 8, BeatJump moduna karşılık gelir.
Bu mod, parçada hassas bir atlama yapmanızı sağlar.


  1. Mod 8'e (BeatJump) erişmek için SHIFT ve
    SAMPLER        4   düğmelerine    aynı    anda      basın.
    SAMPLER 4 düğmesi yanıp söner.
  2. Bir atlama yapmak için bir pede basın.


Atlama uzunluğu:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2                       Atla

          Ped 1                      1 beat geri git
          Ped 2                      1 beat ileri git
          Ped 3                      2 beat geri git
          Ped 4                      2 beat ileri git
          Ped 5                      4 beat geri git
          Ped 6                      4 beat ileri git
          Ped 7                      8 beat geri git
          Ped 8                      8 beat ileri git


                           68
Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro'da mod 8, Scratch
Banks moduna karşılık gelir. Bu mod, motorlu diskte
scratch atmak için deck'e o anda çalmakta olan parçanın
yerine bir scratch sample'ı anında yüklemenizi ve
ardından      o   anda    çalmakta   olan    parçaya      hızlıca
dönmenizi sağlar.
Scratch sample panelini görüntülemek için Serato DJ
Lite'da    simgesine tıklayın.


  1. Mod 8'e (Scratch Banks) erişmek için SHIFT ve
    SAMPLER         4     düğmelerine   aynı   anda       basın.
    SAMPLER 4 düğmesi yanıp söner.
  2. Bir scratch sample'ı çalmak için bir pede basın.
  3. Scratch sample'ı çalmayı durdurmak ve daha önce
    çalmakta       olan    parçaya   dönmek        için   SHIFT
    düğmesine ve ilgili pede aynı anda basın.


Sample'lar:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                     Sample

           Ped 1                            Ahh!
           Ped 2                        Hey You!
           Ped 3                            Oww!
           Ped 4                            Yeah!




                              69
Scratch atma
Scratch atmak, motorlu diski çevirerek parçadan bir ses
efekti üretilmesini içerir.


İşaret parmağınızı motorlu diskin üstüne yerleştirin ve
sağa ve sola küçük, hızlı hareketler yapın.


Ritim    oluşturmak      için   bu   scratch'i   birkaç   kez
tekrarlayabilirsiniz.




 − Scratch atmadan veya miks yapmadan önce
    motorlu disk ile vinil plağın arasına bir keçe mat
    yerleştirdiğinizden emin olun.
 − Vinil plağı motorlu diskin üzerine yerleştirirken
    zorlamayın. Vinil plağın ortasına zarar verebilirsiniz.




                                70
Filtreler
Parçanın    filtresini   ayarlamak       belirli       frekansları
zayıflatmanızı sağlar.


  − Yüksek frekansları zayıflatın (alçak geçiren filtre
    veya yüksek kesen filtre olarak bilinir): Filtre
    düğmesini (FILTER) sola çevirin.
  − Düşük frekansları zayıflatın (yüksek geçiren filtre
    veya    alçak    kesen   filtre   olarak       bilinir):   Filtre
    düğmesini (FILTER) sağa çevirin.




                             71
  6.     Çok kanallı ses kartı
DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesi, bir adet dahili çok
kanallı ser kartı içermekte olup miksinizi dinleyici için
hoparlörlerde çalmanızı (hoparlörler için Master çıkışı),
hazırladığınız   bir   sonraki   parçayı   kulaklıklarınızda
dinlemenizi (kulaklık çıkışı) ve audio kaynağı olarak bir
line seviyesi çıkış içeren bir mikrofon ve/veya cihaz
kullanmanızı sağlar.




                            72
Hoparlörler için Master çıkışı (çıkış 1-2)
Aktif hoparlörleriniz, DJ kontrol ünitesinin arkasında
bulunan hoparlörler için iki Master çıkışından birine
bağlanmalıdır.




Her    iki   çıkış   formatını    aynı   anda    kullanmak
mümkündür — örneğin bir çıkış çiftini PA sistemine ve
ikinci çıkış çiftini izleme hoparlörlerine bağlayabilirsiniz.




                             73
Kulaklık çıkışı (çıkış 3-4)
Kulaklığınız, DJ kontrol ünitesinin ön tarafında bulunan
iki kulaklık çıkışından    birine bağlanmalıdır.




DJ kontrol ünitesi her bağlandığında fabrika ayarı olarak
kulaklık çıkışı, çıkış 3-4'e atanır, böylece cihaz özellikle
DJUCED® ve Serato DJ Lite da dahil olmak üzere
piyasada mevcut tüm DJ'lik yazılımlarıyla çalışabilir.


Bununla birlikte DJ kontrol ünitesinin kulaklık çıkışını
bilgisayarınızda    bulunan        şarkıları   dinlemek   için
kullanmak isterseniz, örneğin iTunes kullanarak, çıkış
1-2'yi kulaklık çıkışına yönlendirmeniz gerekir. Bunun
için MASTER VU göstergesinin altında bulunan
düğmesine basın.


                              74
Aynı   anda    iki   çift   kulaklık   bağlamanızı      tavsiye
etmiyoruz (yani bir kulaklığı 3,5 mm mini-jak çıkış
konektörüne     ve     diğerini    6,35    mm     jak     çıkış
konektörüne). İki çift kulaklık aynı empedans değerine
sahip değilse çıkış ses seviyeleri farklı olur.




                              75
Mikrofon girişi
Mikrofonunuz, DJ kontrol ünitesinin arkasında bulunan
Mikrofon      girişine   bağlanmalıdır.   Mikrofon   girişi
dengelidir.




                             76
Dengeli veya dengesiz mikrofon bağlayabilirsiniz.
Dengeli mikrofon daha az soluma efektleriyle daha
net, daha güçlü ses üretir. Dengeli mikrofonunuz bir
dengeli kablo kullanılarak bağlanmazsa mikrofon
kablonuz mikrofonunuzun ses kalitesini düşürür.


                        Dengeli kablo

             Tip (Uç)
         Ring (Halka)

       Sleeve (Kovan)




                        Dengesiz kablo


             Tip (Uç)


       Sleeve (Kovan)




                             77
  7.       Uyumluluk

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Bu DJ kontrol ünitesi tak ve kullan özelliklidir, USB Audio
ve USB MIDI standartlarıyla uyumlu olduğundan tüm PC
veya Mac bilgisayarlarda sürücüler olmadan DJUCED
ile çalışabilir.



ASIO ve Windows® kontrol paneli
DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesini Serato DJ Lite ile
kullanmak için ASIO sürücülerini yüklemeniz gerekir.
ASIO sürücüleri şu adreste mevcuttur:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


DJUCED kullanıyorsanız bilgisayarınızda daha düşük
gecikmeden yararlanmak için ASIO sürücülerini de
indirebilirsiniz.


ASIO sürücüleri, bilgisayarda görev çubuğundan veya
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\ dizininden erişilebilen bir kontrol paneli ile
gelir. Bu panel, arabellek boyutları ve gecikme gibi farklı
ASIO ayarlarını yapmanızı sağlar.




                            78
ASIO ayarlarını yapmak için:
  − ASIO arabellek boyutunu 4 veya 8 ms olarak
     ayarlayın.
  − Yazılımınızı   başlatın    (örneğin:   DJUCED®)   ve
     DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) sürücüsünü
     seçin:




Yazılım, ASIO sürücülerini kullanarak başladığında ASIO
ayarları artık kontrol panelinde değiştirilemez. Bu
normaldir ve ASIO sürücüsünün kullanımda olduğunu
gösterir.




                              79
Yazılımınızı kullanarak seste yapaylık, ses bozukluğu
(tıklama, çıtlama) ve gecikme sorunu olup olmadığını
kontrol edin. Ses bozukluğu veya yapaylık varsa sorunu
çözmek için arabellek boyutunu artırmanız gerekir.


Yazılımınızı kapatın ve ASIO arabellek boyutunu her
seferinde bir değer olacak şekilde ayarlayın:
  − Gecikmeyi     azaltmak    için    arabellek   boyutunu
    düşürün.
  − Seste bozukluk veya yapaylık tespit ederseniz
    arabellek boyutunu artırın.


Sisteminiz için en uygun arabellek boyutunu bulana dek
bu prosedürü tekrarlamanız gerekir.


Sürücüler için bkz:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Donanım yazılımı güncellemesi
DJ      kontrol   üniteniz     otomatik    donanım       yazılımı
güncelleme        moduna      sahiptir.   Bu    mod,    Hercules
sürücülerini yüklemenizi ve ekran talimatlarını izlemenizi
gerektirir. Donanım yazılımı güncellemesi otomatik
yapılır.


Sürücüler için bkz:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Kontrol     paneli   ayrıca     bu    bilgiye   ulaşmanızı    ve
bilgisayarınızda     yüklü     sürücü     sürümlerini   ABOUT
(HAKKINDA) sekmesinde görmenizi sağlar. Hercules
teknik destek ekibine ulaşmanız gerektiğinde bu bilgiyi el
altında bulundurun.




                                81
Kontrol panelinde DJ kontrol ünitesini
test etme
DJControl      Inpulse T7     kontrol     panelinin      ABOUT
(HAKKINDA) kısmında DJ kontrol ünitenizin sesini, MIDI
kontrollerini ve aydınlatmayı ve ayrıca motorlu diskleri
test edebilirsiniz.


Kontrol paneline erişmek için şu dizine gidin: C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Audio testi

DJControl      Inpulse T7      kontrol     ünitesinin      audio
arayüzünün ses üretip üretmediğini (DJ yazılımını
kullanmadan) test etmek için hoparlör simgesine tıklayın.
Test     sırasında    simge   yeşile     döner   ve     program,
hoparlörler ve kulaklık için Master çıkışlarında bir ses
çalar.




                              82
  2. MIDI kontrolleri testi

DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesinin MIDI kontrollerini
(DJ yazımını kullanmadan) test etmek için test etmek
istediğiniz düğmeleri veya diğer kontrolleri kullanmayı
deneyin. DIN konektörü simgesi yeşile dönerse bu, MIDI
komutunun alınmakta olduğunu ve düğme veya diğer
kontrolün düzgün çalıştığını gösterir.




                            83
  3. Aydınlatma testi

DJControl   Inpulse T7   kontrol   ünitesinin   LED'lerinin
çalışıp çalışmadığını (DJ yazılımını kullanmadan) test
etmek için kontrol ünitesinin LED'lerini yakmak üzere
ampul simgesine tıklayın. Test sırasında simge yeşile
döner ve kontrol ünitesinin LED'leri yanar.




DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesinin tüm LED'lerini,
deck'lerdeki IN ve OUT düğmelerine aynı anda
basarak da yakabilirsiniz.




                             84
  4. Motorlu diskler testi

DJControl     Inpulse T7       kontrol   ünitesinin     motorlu
disklerinin   çalışıp       çalışmadığını   (DJ       yazılımını
kullanmadan) test etmek için disk 1 veya 2 simgesine
tıklayın. Test sırasında ilgili disk ve DIN konektörü
simgeleri yeşil yanar ve motorlu disk kontrol ünitesi
üzerinde hareket eder (döner).


Motorlu disk no. 1 testi:




Motorlu disk no. 2 testi:




                               85
  8.     Demo modu
Bu mod, bilgisayar olmadan DJ kontrol ünitenizi bir güç
kaynağına ve bir USB güç kaynağına bağladığınızda
kullanılabilir ve özellikle mağazalarda kullanılır. Bu
durumda DJ kontrol ünitesi fonksiyonel olmayıp demo
modundadır: Kontrol ünitesinin farklı ışıklarını yakan bir
demo işlem dizisi kendini tekrarlamaya devam eder.




                           86
  9.     Sıkça Sorulan Sorular (SSS)

 1.      Kulaklığımdan ses gelmiyor.
DJ kontrol üniteniz DJUCED® ve Serato DJ Lite ile
çalışmak üzere önceden ayarlanmış çok kanallı bir ses
kartı ile donatılmış olduğundan kulaklığınızı DJ kontrol
ünitenizin ön tarafına bağladığınızı kontrol edin.
Varsayılan olarak yazılım ilk başlatıldığında iki izleme
düğmesi devrededir. Ardından kulaklığınızda dinlemek
istediğiniz   deck'i   seçebilir    veya    MASTER   VU
göstergesinin altında bulunan          düğmesine basarak
miksinizin sonuçlarını dinleyebilirsiniz.




                             87
  2.      Kulaklığımdaki ses bozuk veya
    çok düşük çıkıyor.
Kulaklığınızda, TRRS konektörü (kulaklık + mikrofon)
değil bir TRS konektörü (standart kulaklık) olduğunu
kontrol edin.


           Tip (Uç)                      Tip (Uç)
       Ring (Halka)                      Ring (Halka)
                                         Ring (Halka)
    Sleeve (Kovan)
                                         Sleeve (Kovan)




TRRS      konektörler   DJControl   Inpulse   T7    kontrol
ünitesiyle uyumlu değildir.




                              88
  3.       Hoparlörlerimden ses gelmiyor.
DJ kontrol üniteniz DJUCED® ve Serato DJ Lite ile
çalışmak üzere önceden ayarlanmış çok kanallı bir ses
kartı ile donatılmış olduğundan hoparlörlerinizi DJ kontrol
ünitesinin arka tarafındaki RCA veya XLR konektörlerine
bağladığınızı kontrol edin.


DJControl     Inpulse    T7     kontrol   ünitesinin   audio
arayüzünün ses üretip üretmediğini test etmek için (DJ
yazılımını kullanmadan) DJ kontrol ünitesinin kontrol
panelini    görüntüleyebilirsiniz.   ABOUT     (HAKKINDA)
sekmesine tıklayın, ardından hoparlör simgesine tıklayın.
Ses çalınırken simge yeşile döner.




                              89
 4.        Dizüstü bilgisayarımın
      hoparlörlerinden ses gelmiyor.
DJ kontrol üniteniz önceden yapılandırılmış bir çok
kanallı ses kartı ile donatılmıştır. Dizüstü bilgisayarınızın
dahili hoparlörlerini kullanmak istiyorsanız:
  − DJUCED ®'da ayarlara erişin ve SEND MASTER
      TO    COMPUTER        SPEAKERS       (ANA    SİNYALİ
      BİLGİSAYAR        HOPARLÖRLERİNE            GÖNDER)
      seçeneğini işaretleyin.




  − Serato DJ Lite'da ayarlara erişin, Audio (Ses)
      sekmesini açın ve Use Laptop Speakers (Dizüstü
      Bilgisayar     Hoparlörlerini   Kullan)     seçeneğini
      işaretleyin.




                                90
 5.        Kulaklığımdan               veya        dizüstü
      bilgisayarımın hoparlörlerinden ses
      gelmiyor.
Varsayılan olarak ses, hoparlörler için Master çıkışından
ve    kulaklık   çıkışından   gelir.   Bu   nedenle    dizüstü
bilgisayardan ses gelmemesi normaldir.


Dizüstü bilgisayarınızın dahili hoparlörlerini kullanmak
istiyorsanız:
     − DJUCED ®'da ayarlara erişin ve SEND MASTER
      TO   COMPUTER           SPEAKERS      (ANA      SİNYALİ
      BİLGİSAYAR        HOPARLÖRLERİNE             GÖNDER)
      seçeneğini    işaretleyin.   Kulaklığınızı   DJControl
      Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesine bağlamanız gerekir.




                              91
  − Serato DJ Lite'da ayarlara erişin, Audio (Ses)
    sekmesini açın ve Use Laptop Speakers (Dizüstü
    Bilgisayar      Hoparlörlerini     Kullan)    seçeneğini
    işaretleyin.   Kulaklığınızı     DJControl   Inpulse   T7
    kontrol ünitesine bağlamanız gerekir.




DJControl     Inpulse    T7     kontrol   ünitesinin   audio
arayüzünün ses üretip üretmediğini test etmek için (DJ
yazılımını kullanmadan) DJ kontrol ünitesinin kontrol
panelini    görüntüleyebilirsiniz.   ABOUT       (HAKKINDA)
sekmesine tıklayın, ardından hoparlör simgesine tıklayın.
Ses çalınırken simge yeşile döner.




                              92
  6.     Windows®           ile     ses         kalitesi
     sorunları yaşıyorum.

Çalınan parçanın ses seviyesi çok düşük

DJ yazılımının master ses seviyesi, DJ kontrol ünitesi
üzerindeki ses seviyesi kontrollerinden bağımsızdır. Bu
nedenle DJ yazılımının master ses seviyesi düşük
olduğu sürece Master çıkışının ses seviyesi de düşük
olacaktır.

DJ yazılımının ses seviyesini kontrol edin ve gerekirse
yükseltin.

  DJUCED'da, pencerenin sağ üst kısmındaki çubukta
     bulunan ses seviyesi düğmesini kullanın.




  Serato DJ Lite'da, pencerenin sağ üst kısmındaki
     çubukta bulunan ses seviyesi düğmesini kullanın.




                           93
Kulaklığımdaki ses seviyesi çok düşük
Serato DJ Lite'da ayarlara erişin, Audio (Ses) sekmesini
açın ve Use Laptop Speakers (Dizüstü Bilgisayar
Hoparlörlerini Kullan) seçeneğinin işaretini kaldırın (yani
seçimi iptal edin).




                            94
Use Laptop Speakers (Dizüstü Bilgisayar Hoparlörlerini
Kullan) kutusunu işaretli (yani seçili) tutmanız gerekirse
bilgisayarın dahili ses kartını "Bilgisayar hoparlörleri"
olarak kullanın:
  1. Serato DJ Lite yazılımını kapatın.
  2. Windows ayarlarına erişin ve System (Sistem) ve
     ardından Sound (Ses) kısmına gidin.
  3. Output (Çıkış) kısmında bilgisayarın dahili ses
     kartını seçin. DJ kontrol üniteniz artık çıkış olarak
     ayarlanmamalıdır.




Windows®, DJ kontrol ünitenizi Windows® ses kartı
olarak ayarlamış olabilir. Bu ayarı korursanız Use Laptop
Speakers (Dizüstü Bilgisayar Hoparlörlerini Kullan) ayarı,
DJ kontrol ünitenizin 4 kanallı çıkışında (Master çıkış +
kulaklık) Master çıkışını çalabilir.




                              95
Ses net değil

DJUCED®'da:
Bir ASIO audio cihazı kullanmanızı öneririz. Bir WASAPI
cihazı ile ses kalitesi genellikle iyidir. Bununla birlikte
gecikme artabilir ve ses net olmayabilir.


Ayarlara erişim, Audio (Ses) sekmesine tıklayın ve Audio
device (Audio cihazı) olarak DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
(ASIO)'yu seçin.




Serato DJ Lite'da:
Ayarlara erişin, Audio (Ses) sekmesini açın ve Use
Laptop Speakers (Dizüstü Bilgisayar          Hoparlörlerini
Kullan) seçeneğinin işaretini kaldırın (yani seçimi iptal
edin).




                            96
  7.Multimedya hoparlörlerimi DJControl
     Inpulse T7'ye bağlayamıyorum.
Hoparlörlerinizin konektörleri DJControl Inpulse T7
kontrol    ünitesi    üzerindeki     konektörlerden           farklıysa
multimedya hoparlörler bağlamak için bir çift RCA - 3,5
mm mini-jak adaptörü (ürünle verilmez), PA hoparlörleri
kullanmak için 6,35 mm jak adaptörü (ürünle verilmez)
veya hoparlörlerinize uygun başka herhangi bir adaptör
formatı kullanabilirsiniz.
Ayrıca hoparlörlerinizi kulaklık çıkışına bağlayabilir ve
MASTER         VU    göstergesinin    altında    bulunan
düğmesine       basarak      çıkış      1-2'yi        çıkış      3-4'e
yönlendirebilirsiniz.



  8.       DJControl          Inpulse            T7      kontrol
     ünitesi iPad veya iPhone ile uyumlu
     mu?
Hayır, DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesi iPad veya
iPhone ile uyumlu değildir. Sadece bilgisayar veya Mac
ile çalışır.




                              97
  9.     DJControl             Inpulse T7             kontrol
    ünitesini               bir         USB-C portuna
    veyaThunderbolt                   3 portuna         nasıl
    bağlayabilirim?
DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrol ünitesini bir USB-C portuna
veya    Thunderbolt     3     portuna    üç    farklı   şekilde
bağlayabilirsiniz:
  − Bilgisayarla DJ kontrol ünitesi arasında bir adaptör
    (USB-C [erkek] veya Thunderbolt 3 - USB-A [dişi])
    kullanarak.       Güç     beslemesinin      bir     kısmını
    kestiklerinden     bazı    ucuz     adaptörlerin    düzgün
    çalışmayacağını lütfen unutmayın.
  − Bilgisayarla DJ kontrol ünitesi arasında bir yuva
    (USB-C veya Thunderbolt 3) kullanarak. Sadece
    USB-C veya Thunderbolt 3 portundan beslenen bir
    yuva    yeterli   güce     sahip    olamayabileceğinden
    yuvanın ayrı güç beslemesi olduğundan emin olun.
  − Verilen USB kablosunu bir USB-C veya Thunderbolt
    3 - USB-B 2.0 kablo ile değiştirerek.




                              98
     TEKNİK DESTEK
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Ticari markalar
Intel® ve Intel Core™, Intel Corporation'ın ticari markaları veya tescilli
ticari markalarıdır.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11, Birleşik Devletler ve/veya diğer ülkelerde
Microsoft Corporation'ın tescilli ticari markası veya ticari markasıdır.
Mac® ve macOS®, Birleşik Devletler ve diğer ülkelerde kayıtlı, Apple
Inc.'in ticari markalarıdır.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite ve Serato DJ Pro Serato Audio Research
Limited'in tescilli ticari markalarıdır.
DJUCED        markası         ve   DJUCED   grafik   unsurları    Guillemot
Corporation'ın malıdır.
ASIO, Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH'ın ticari markasıdır.
Diğer tüm ticari markalar ile marka adları işbu belgede tanınmış olup ilgili
sahiplerine aittir. Fotoğraflar bağlayıcı değildir. Bu belgedeki içerik,
tasarım ve teknik özellikler önceden haber vermeksizin değiştirilebilir ve
ülkeden ülkeye farklılık gösterebilir.




                                       100
Telif hakkı
Bu dokümanın hiçbir kısmı, Guillemot Corporation S.A.'nın açık yazılı izni
olmadan her ne şekil veya araçla olursa olsun, elektronik, mekanik,
manyetik olarak, fotokopi yoluyla, kaydederek, manuel veya başka
şekilde, kopyalanması, özetlenmesi, iletilmesi, kaydedilmesi veya
saklanması ya da herhangi bir dile veya bilgisayar diline çevrilmesi
yasaktır.




                                  101
DJUCED® ve Serato DJ Lite Son
Kullanıcı Lisans Sözleşmesi
DJUCED® ve Serato DJ Lite kurulumu sırasında görüntülenen Lisans
Sözleşmesini lütfen dikkatle okuyun.




                                  102
Instrukcja obsługi
                      SPIS TREŚCI

1.   ZAWARTOŚĆ OPAKOWANIA .......................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ..... 8

2.   DANE TECHNICZNE ......................................... 10

3.   ELEMENTY ......................................................... 13

     Widok ogólny .............................................. 13

     Decki ............................................................ 14

     Miksowanie ................................................. 32

     Złącza........................................................... 43

4.   INSTALACJA...................................................... 46

     Połączenia ................................................... 46

     Pobieranie oprogramowania ..................... 49

5.   UATRAKCYJNIANIE MIKSÓW........................ 54

     Tryby i pady ................................................ 54

     Skreczowanie .............................................. 70

     Filtry ............................................................. 71
6.   WIELOKANAŁOWA KARTA

     DŹWIĘKOWA ..................................................... 72

     Wyjście głośnikowe Master

     (wyjście 1-2) ................................................ 73

     Wyjście słuchawek (wyjście 3–4) ............. 74

     Wejście mikrofonu ..................................... 76

7.   ZGODNOŚĆ........................................................ 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ............................... 78

     ASIO i panel sterowania w systemie

     Windows® .................................................... 78

     Aktualizacja oprogramowania

     sprzętowego................................................ 81

     Testowanie kontrolera DJ w panelu

     sterowania ................................................... 82

8.   TRYB DEMO ....................................................... 86

9.   CZĘSTO ZADAWANE PYTANIA..................... 87
Hercules   DJControl     Inpulse T7   to   kontroler   DJ
wyposażony w pełną gamę funkcji, który ułatwia naukę
korzystania z gramofonu na płyty winylowe. Pomagają
w tym dwa zmotoryzowane talerze, samouczki wideo
oraz integracja z oprogramowaniem DJUCED i Serato
DJ Lite.




Hercules    DJControl    Inpulse T7   zawiera    licencję
programu Serato DJ Lite, a nie Serato DJ Pro.
Z programu Serato DJ Lite można korzystać bez
ograniczeń czasowych.
Jeśli zainstalujesz program Serato DJ Pro, a nie
Serato DJ Lite, będzie on działać z kontrolerem
DJControl Inpulse T7 przez okres próbny. Jeśli po
zakończeniu     okresu    próbnego    zechcesz     nadal
korzystać z programu Serato DJ Pro, konieczny będzie
zakup jego licencji.


                            4
Dostępna jest szeroka gama samouczków wideo,
które pomagają w nauce miksowania przy użyciu
kontrolera Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (w języku angielskim):
       o W programie     DJUCED      po    kliknięciu
          ikony    .
       o Na stronie internetowej DJUCED.
  − Kanał Hercules Audio na YouTube (w języku
    angielskim).
  − The DJ Coach z kursami, które prowadzi DJ
    HAPA w programie Serato DJ Lite (w języku
    angielskim).




                         5
 1.    Zawartość opakowania

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Dwie płyty winylowe (7 cali / 17,8 cm)
 − Dwie filcowe slipmaty
 − Kabel USB w oplocie
 − Osobny kabel zasilania
 − Zasilacz
 − Skrócona instrukcja
 − Ulotka gwarancyjna




                           6
Na   VU-metrach   kontrolera   Hercules    DJControl
Inpulse T7 są umieszczone folie ochronne. Możesz je
zdjąć lub pozostawić na miejscu, ponieważ nie
wpływają one na korzystanie z VU-metrów.




                        7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Dwie płyty winylowe (7 cali / 17,8 cm)
 − Dwie filcowe slipmaty
 − Dwie cienkie filcowe slipmaty
 − Kabel USB w oplocie
 − Osobny kabel zasilania
 − Zasilacz
 − Walizka
 − Skrócona instrukcja
 − Ulotka gwarancyjna




Na   VU-metrach     kontrolera     Hercules   DJControl
Inpulse T7 Premium Edition są umieszczone folie
ochronne. Możesz je zdjąć lub pozostawić na miejscu,
ponieważ nie wpływają one na korzystanie z VU-
metrów.




                           9
  2.    Dane techniczne
Wymagania systemowe:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (w języku angielskim)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemrequir
    ements#system-requirements (w języku angielskim)


Wyjścia audio:
           o Rozdzielczość = 24 bity
           o Częstotliwość próbkowania = 44,1 kHz


Wyjścia głośnikowe Master (wyjście 1–2):
  − Dwa złącza RCA:
           o Maks. moc wyjściowa = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Dwa złącza XLR (zbalansowane):
           o Maks. moc wyjściowa = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Wyjście słuchawek (wyjście 3–4) za pośrednictwem
jednego złącza minijack stereo 3,5 mm i jednego złącza
jack stereo 6,35 mm:
           o Maksymalna moc wyjściowa = 5 dBU dla
             32 Ω @ 1 kHz


Wejście mikrofonu za pośrednictwem jednego złącza
jack 6,35 mm (zbalansowane)

                            10
                          Zasilacz
− Używaj       wyłącznie       zasilacza    wskazanego
  w instrukcji obsługi.
− Używaj zasilacza tylko pod warunkiem, że wartość
  i częstotliwość   napięcia     w sieci   jest   zgodna
  z parametrami podanymi na tabliczce znamionowej
  zasilacza.




                            11
            Informacje na temat zasilacza
Publikowana              Wartość            Jednostka
 informacja
Nazwa lub znak        GUILLEMOT
   towarowy        CORPORATION S.A.
  producenta        414 196 758 R.C.S.
    Numer                Vannes
  w rejestrze     2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
    Adres             56910 Carentoir
                          Francja
 Identyfikator        A481-1852590D
   modelu
  Napięcie               100–240               V
  wejściowe
Częstotliwość             50–60                Hz
  wejściowa
    prądu
przemiennego
    (AC)
  Napięcie                 18,5               V DC
  wyjściowe
Prąd wyjściowy              2,6                A
Moc wyjściowa              47,9                W
   Średnia                 87,8                %
  sprawność
podczas pracy
Sprawność przy             87,8                %
    niskim
  obciążeniu
    (10%)
 Pobór mocy                0,10                W
bez obciążenia




                         12
 3.     Elementy

Widok ogólny




 1. Zmotoryzowany talerz
 2. Przyciski transportu (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Sterowanie pętlą (Loop)
 4. Sterowanie wyborem ścieżek (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Fader tempa (Pitch fader)
 6. Pady i tryby
 7. Tryby odtwarzania
 8. Odsłuch, głośność (Master, słuchawki i mikrofon)
      oraz Beatmatch Guide
 9. Sekcja miksowania (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mikser (crossfader, fadery głośności)
 11. Efekty




                          13
Decki

  1. Zmotoryzowany talerz




Filcowa      slipmata:   umieszcza        się   ją     między
zmotoryzowanym      talerzem    a płytą    winylową.    Mata
zapobiega ocieraniu płyty o talerz i ogranicza drgania
związane z ruchem obrotowym płyty.




 Zawsze pamiętaj, aby umieścić filcową slipmatę na
 zmotoryzowanym talerzu, zanim zainstalujesz płytę
 winylową.




                           14
Płyta      winylowa:        umożliwia       skreczowanie,
przyspieszanie       lub    spowalnianie        odtwarzania
i poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki.
Linia umieszczona na etykiecie płyty jest punktem
odniesienia   (tj.   znacznikiem)     podczas   miksowania
i skreczowania.


Wykonywaną czynność określają dwa czynniki:
  − odtwarzanie ścieżki lub pauza;
  − miejsce dotknięcia płyty winylowej (góra (top) lub
    pierścień (ring)).


                            Góra




 Pierścień




                            15
Funkcje płyt winylowych w programach Serato DJ Lite
i Serato DJ Pro:


                      Zmotoryzowany        Przycisk
 Odtwarzanie/pauza
                          talerz            SHIFT
     Odtwarzanie            Góra                  -
                     Skreczowanie
                                           Naciśnięcie
     Odtwarzanie       Góra/pierścień
                                        i przytrzymanie
        Szybkie poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki
     Odtwarzanie          Pierścień               -
      Przyspieszanie lub spowalnianie odtwarzania
        Pauza          Góra/pierścień             -
         Wolne poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki
                                           Naciśnięcie
        Pauza          Góra/pierścień
                                        i przytrzymanie
        Szybkie poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki




                          16
Funkcje płyt winylowych w programie DJUCED:


                     Zmotoryzowany        Przycisk
 Odtwarzanie/pauza
                         talerz            SHIFT
    Odtwarzanie            Góra                  -
                     Skreczowanie
                                          Naciśnięcie
    Odtwarzanie       Góra/pierścień
                                       i przytrzymanie
       Szybkie poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki
    Odtwarzanie          Pierścień               -
     Przyspieszanie lub spowalnianie odtwarzania
       Pauza             Pierścień               -
        Wolne poruszanie się w obrębie ścieżki




                         17
Zmotoryzowany talerz: napędza płytę winylową, która
steruje odtwarzaniem ścieżki i jej szybkością zgodnie
z tempem ustawionym przy użyciu fadera tempa.


Kiedy jest włączona funkcja Beatmatch Guide, wskaźniki
wizualne BEAT ALIGN sygnalizują kierunek, w którym
należy     obrócić     pierścień         (czyli       krawędź)
zmotoryzowanego      talerza,     aby     wyrównać          siatki
rytmiczne obu ścieżek. Jeśli żadna z dwóch czerwonych
strzałek się nie świeci, ścieżki rytmiczne są wyrównane.


Więcej informacji na temat funkcji Beatmatch Guide
można znaleźć w sekcji Beatmatch Guide.




Napędu talerzy nie można wyłączyć.




 − Kiedy   zmotoryzowany        talerz   się      obraca,    nie
   zatrzymuj go dłonią na dłuższy czas, aby uniknąć
   uszkodzenia napędu.
 − Umieszczając płytę winylową na zmotoryzowanym
   talerzu, nie dociskaj jej. Dociskanie płyty grozi
   uszkodzeniem jej środkowej części.


                           18
  2. Przyciski transportu




SHIFT: sterowanie połączone. Przykładowo:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): blokuje tonację
    ścieżki.
  − SHIFT + IN: w programie DJUCED® skraca aktywną
    pętlę o połowę.


SYNC:      włącza     lub        wyłącza    automatyczną
synchronizację wartości BPM (uderzeń na minutę)
dwóch ścieżek.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o W programie DJUCED: ustawia dany deck
        jako główny deck synchronizacji (Master Sync).
      o W programie     Serato       DJ    Lite:   wyłącza
        synchronizację na decku.




                            19
CUE: wstawia w ścieżce punkt Cue w celu zaznaczenia
określonego momentu lub przesuwa głowicę odtwarzania
decka w położenie punktu Cue.
  − Ścieżka wstrzymana: wstawia punkt Cue w miejscu
    zatrzymania ścieżki.
  − Ścieżka odtwarzana: zatrzymuje odtwarzanie ścieżki
    i przesuwa głowicę odtwarzania decka do punktu Cue.
      o W programie        DJUCED:jeśli     nie     zdefiniowano
         punktu     Cue,     naciśnięcie     CUE       zatrzymuje
         odtwarzanie    i wstawia    punkt     Cue     w miejscu,
         w którym znajduje się głowica odtwarzania.
      o W programie Serato DJ Lite: jeśli nie zdefiniowano
         punktu     Cue,     naciśnięcie     CUE       zatrzymuje
         odtwarzanie i wstawia punkt Cue na początku
         ścieżki.
  − CUE + PLAY: przesuwa głowicę odtwarzania do punktu
    Cue i rozpoczyna odtwarzanie ścieżki od tego punktu.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o W programie        DJUCED:        przesuwa       głowicę
         odtwarzania    na    początek     ścieżki    i zatrzymuje
         odtwarzanie.
      o W programie Serato DJ Lite: przesuwa głowicę
         odtwarzania    na    początek     ścieżki   i rozpoczyna
         odtwarzanie.


Start/Pauza: rozpoczyna lub wstrzymuje odtwarzanie ścieżki.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: w programie Serato DJ Lite przesuwa
    głowicę odtwarzania do punktu Cue i rozpoczyna
    odtwarzanie ścieżki od tego znacznika.


                              20
  3. Sterowanie pętlą




Koder AUTOLOOP:
  − Naciśnięcie kodera: włącza lub wyłącza odtwarzanie
    pętli.
  − Obrócenie kodera: dostosowuje długość pętli.


IN/OUT:      włącza    pętlę      przez   wybranie     punktu
początkowego (IN) i końcowego (OUT).
Kiedy pętla jest aktywna (czyli włączona):
  − Naciśnij    IN    (przycisk     zacznie   migać)   i obróć
    zmotoryzowany talerz, aby przesunąć początek
    pętli.
  − Naciśnij OUT (przycisk zacznie migać) i obróć
    zmotoryzowany talerz, aby przesunąć koniec pętli.
Aby wyjść z pętli, naciśnij koder AUTOLOOP.
W programie DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: skraca aktywną pętlę o połowę.
  − SHIFT + OUT: wydłuża aktywną pętlę dwukrotnie.
  − Długie naciśnięcie IN: włącza pętlę o długości
    czterech beatów.



                               21
  4. Sterowanie wyborem ścieżek




Koder BROWSER*: umożliwia przeglądanie biblioteki
muzycznej przez obracanie kodera w lewo (w górę) lub
w prawo (w dół).
Naciskając koder, można wybierać foldery i ładować
wybraną ścieżkę na deck docelowy.


Podświetlany pierścień:
  − W programie DJUCED pokazuje poziom energii
    ścieżki głównej wyznaczającej tempo.
  − W programie Serato DJ Lite pokazuje rytm. Światło
    miga w rytm ścieżki:
          o Kolor czerwony: sygnalizuje pierwszy beat.
          o Kolor niebieski: sygnalizuje trzy pozostałe
             beaty.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − W programie       DJUCED         wyświetla        panel
    z propozycjami najlepszych kolejnych ścieżek do
    miksu.
    Aby przejrzeć listę proponowanych ścieżek, obróć
    koder BROWSER.
    Aby wybrać ścieżkę, naciśnij koder BROWSER.
    Ścieżkę już załadowaną na dany deck należy
    wstrzymać.
    Naciśnij   ASSIST./PREP.        i obróć   koder,    aby
    dopasować poziom energii proponowanych ścieżek.
  − W programie Serato DJ Lite dodaje aktualnie
    odtwarzaną ścieżkę do listy Prepare (Przygotuj).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: otwiera panel Prepare
    (Przygotuj).


BACK*: umożliwia poruszanie się po strukturze drzewa
folderów w programach DJUCED i Serato DJ Lite.
  − W programie DJUCED naciśnij SHIFT i BACK, aby
    wrócić do kolumny Biblioteka.




*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.
                            23
  5. Fader tempa




Fader tempa: określa szybkość odtwarzania ścieżki
przez regulowanie wartości BPM.
  − Przesunięcie w górę: spowolnienie ścieżki.
  − Przesunięcie w dół: przyspieszenie ścieżki.
  − Fader tempa w położeniu środkowym: oryginalna
    szybkość ścieżki. Świeci biała dioda.


Kiedy jest włączona funkcja Beatmatch Guide, wskaźniki
wizualne TEMPO sygnalizują, czy należy przesunąć
fader tempa w górę lub w dół, aby spowolnić lub
przyspieszyć ścieżkę. Jeśli żadna z czerwonych strzałek
się nie świeci, tempo na danym decku jest identyczne
z tempem na drugim decku.


Więcej informacji na temat funkcji Beatmatch Guide
można znaleźć w sekcji Beatmatch Guide.



                          24
W programach    Serato     DJ   Lite    i Serato   DJ   Pro
w przypadku    włączenia     trybu     SYNC   jednoczesne
naciśnięcie przycisku SHIFT i przesunięcie fadera tempa
powoduje przesunięcie zakresu wartości fadera tempa
przy zachowaniu amplitudy.


Przykładowo przy skali tempa wynoszącej ±8%, czyli
amplitudzie równej 16%, wartości fadera tempa można
przesunąć tak, aby sięgały od 0% (maksimum) do -16%
(minimum), co wciąż daje amplitudę równą 16%, przy
czym w środku zakresu znajduje się wartość -8%.




                           25
RANGE*: umożliwia zmianę skali tempa związanej
z faderami tempa.
  − W programie DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %,
    ± 12 %, ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − W programie Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): blokuje tonację ścieżki.
Aby mieć pewność, że tonacja jest zablokowana,
naciśnij SHIFT. Przycisk RANGE będzie się świecić.




*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.

                           26
  6. Pady i tryby




Przyciski trybów: umożliwiają włączanie do ośmiu
trybów.
Aby włączyć jeden z trybów głównych, naciśnij HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 lub SAMPLER 4.
Aby włączyć jeden z trybów dodatkowych (MODE 5,
MODE 6, MODE 7 lub MODE 8), jednocześnie naciśnij
SHIFT     i HOT    CUE 1,     LOOP 2,      STEMS 3      lub
SAMPLER 4. Przycisk trybu zacznie migać.
Tryby dostępne na padach zależą od używanego
oprogramowania.


Aby   uzyskać     więcej   informacji   o różnych   trybach
dostępnych w programach DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite
i Serato DJ Pro, zapoznaj się z sekcją Tryby i pady.


Pady czynności: pad umożliwia wykonanie określonej
czynności.




                            27
  7. Tryby odtwarzania




INSTRUMENTAL: umożliwia odtwarzanie partii utworu
obejmującej melodię, bas i perkusję. Jest to skrót do
trybu Stems.
  − Aby odtwarzać wyłącznie część utworu obejmującą
    melodię,    bas       i perkusję,   naciśnij    przycisk
    INSTRUMENTAL. Przycisk zacznie świecić.
  − Aby przywrócić odtwarzanie wszystkich części
    utworu (wokal, melodia, bas i perkusja), ponownie
    naciśnij   przycisk     INSTRUMENTAL.          Kontrolka
    przycisku zgaśnie.




                             28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: włącza tryb Slip. Tryb Slip
sprawia, że gdy stosujesz efekt lub pętlę, wstawiasz
punkt Cue albo używasz zmotoryzowanych talerzy,
głowica odtwarzania decka kontynuuje w tle swój
normalny przesuw Gdy zakończysz stosowanie efektu,
odtwarzanie ścieżki jest wznawiane od punktu, do
którego dotarłoby w przypadku niezastosowania efektu.
Aby mieć pewność, że jest włączony tryb Slip, naciśnij
SHIFT. Przycisk INSTRUMENTAL będzie się świecić.




Serato DJ Lite nie udostępnia trybu Slip.
Serato DJ Pro udostępnia tryb Slip.




                          29
VOCAL: umożliwia odtwarzanie samej partii wokalnej
utworu. Jest to skrót do trybu Stems.
  − Aby odtwarzać wyłącznie część wokalną utworu,
    naciśnij przycisk VOCAL. Przycisk zacznie świecić.
  − Aby przywrócić odtwarzanie wszystkich części
    utworu (wokal, melodia, bas i perkusja), ponownie
    naciśnij   przycisk   VOCAL.   Kontrolka   przycisku
    zgaśnie.


SHIFT + VOCAL: włącza tryb kwantyzacji. Kwantyzacja
umożliwia wykonanie określonej czynności (odtworzenie
ścieżki, wstawienie punktu Cue, uruchomienie pętli itp.)
przy następnym beacie w siatce rytmicznej.
Aby mieć pewność, że jest włączony tryb kwantyzacji,
naciśnij SHIFT. Przycisk VOCAL będzie się świecić.




Serato DJ Lite nie udostępnia trybu kwantyzacji.
Serato DJ Pro udostępnia tryb kwantyzacji.




                           30
      (pitch bend -) /          (pitch bend +): umożliwiają
ręczne wyrównanie siatki rytmicznej ścieżki odtwarzanej
na danym decku z siatką drugiego decka.
  − Naciśnij i przytrzymaj         , aby chwilowo spowolnić
    deck.
  − Naciśnij    i przytrzymaj             ,    aby    chwilowo
    przyspieszyć deck.




W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro
kombinacje     SHIFT     +         oraz       SHIFT   +
umożliwiają    regulowanie        ustawień      w niektórych
trybach.




                             31
Miksowanie

  8. Odsłuch, głośność i Beatmatch Guide




Głośność MIC: reguluje głośność mikrofonu.


Podświetlany pierścień MIC: wskazuje poziom sygnału
audio (VU-metr).
  − Nie świeci: brak sygnału audio.
  − Zielony: trwa odtwarzanie sygnału audio.
  − Czerwony: sygnał audio jest nasycony.


Głośność     MASTER:      reguluje    głośność   miksu
odtwarzanego przez głośniki.


VU-metr MASTER: wyświetla poziom sygnału audio na
wyjściu głośnikowym Master (RCA lub XLR).


                          32
Głośność HEADPHONES:
 −         /     : reguluje sygnał odtwarzany przez
     słuchawki, łącząc wyjście Cue (odsłuch decków
     1 i 2) oraz wyjście Mix (wyjście Master).
       o Aby przełączyć się na sam odsłuch, naciśnij
         przyciski monitorowania decków 1 i 2. Przyciski
         zaczną świecić. Następnie obróć pokrętło
         w położenie Cue.
       o Aby    słuchać   wyłącznie    sygnału   z wyjścia
         Master, naciśnij przycisk odsłuchu Master.
         Przycisk zacznie świecić. Następnie obróć
         pokrętło w położenie Mix, aby wyregulować
         miks odtwarzany przez słuchawki.
 −         : reguluje głośność na wyjściu słuchawek.




                            33
Odsłuch:         umożliwia      wybór     źródła        dźwięku
odtwarzanego przez słuchawki.
  −        (pod VU-metrem MASTER): odtwarza dźwięk
      miksu,     który   jest   odtwarzany      głośno      dla
      publiczności.
  −       * (po obu stronach przycisku BEATMATCH
      GUIDE): odtwarza dźwięk z decka 1 lub decka 2,
      gdy przycisk Cue/Mix jest ustawiony na Cue.
W programie Serato DJ Lite naciśnięcie przycisków
SHIFT i          * (obok przycisku BEATMATCH GUIDE)
pozwala        zmodyfikować     siatkę   rytmiczną       ścieżki
odtwarzanej na danym decku. Aby wyjść z trybu edycji
siatki rytmicznej, kliknij Edit Grid (Edytuj siatkę).




*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: włącza lub wyłącza wskaźniki
świetlne służące do regulowania tempa i wyrównywania
siatek rytmicznych obu ścieżek. Na każdym decku są
cztery czerwone strzałki.




Program DJUCED® definiuje jeden z decków jako
główny deck synchronizacji (Master Sync), a drugi
deck jako deck podrzędny. Czerwone strzałki świecą
się wyłącznie na decku podrzędnym, ponieważ to on
odwzorowuje tempo głównego decka synchronizacji.
Program Serato DJ Lite nie definiuje głównego decka
synchronizacji. Czerwone strzałki świecą się na obu
deckach.




                            35
− Wskaźniki wizualne TEMPO: jeśli świeci się jedna
  z dwóch czerwonych strzałek umieszczonych po
  prawej stronie fadera tempa, oznacza to, że tempo
  (czyli liczba uderzeń na minutę) ścieżki odtwarzanej
  na danym decku różni się od tempa ścieżki na
  drugim decku.
  Strzałki    wskazują     kierunek,   w którym   należy
  przesunąć fader tempa, aby dopasować tempo
  odtwarzanej ścieżki do tempa ścieżki na drugim
  decku.
         o Świeci górna strzałka: przesuń fader tempa
             w górę. To spowoduje zwolnienie tempa.
         o Świeci dolna strzałka: przesuń fader tempa
             w dół.   To    spowoduje    przyspieszenie
             tempa.
         o Strzałki nie świecą: tempo decka jest
             identyczne    z tempem    głównego   decka
             synchronizacji.




                           36
− Wskaźniki wizualne BEAT ALIGN: jeśli świeci się
  jedna z dwóch czerwonych strzałek umieszczonych
  pod zmotoryzowanym talerzem, oznacza to, że rytm
  ścieżki odtwarzanej na danym decku różni się od
  rytmu ścieżki na drugim decku.
  Strzałki wskazują kierunek, w którym należy obrócić
  zmotoryzowany     talerz,    aby     wyrównać       rytm
  odtwarzanej ścieżki z rytmem ścieżki na drugim
  decku.
        o Świeci       lewa          strzałka:      obróć
           zmotoryzowany talerz zgodnie z ruchem
           wskazówek zegara. To zwiększy szybkość
           odtwarzania.
        o Świeci       prawa         strzałka:      obróć
           zmotoryzowany talerz przeciwnie do ruchu
           wskazówek       zegara.      To       zmniejszy
           szybkość odtwarzania.
        o Strzałki nie świecą: rytm danego decka jest
           identyczny z rytmem drugiego decka.




                          37
  9. Sekcja miksowania




Pokrętło GAIN*: reguluje wzmocnienie (czyli poziom
głośności przed faderem głośności).


Korektor     3-pasmowy*:    steruje     stopniem   korekcji.
Z każdym pasmem związane jest jedno pokrętło: HIGH,
MID i LOW.


Pokrętło FILTER*: reguluje częstotliwość podwójnego
filtru (górno- i dolnoprzepustowego).




*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.
                            38
   10.     Mikser




VU-metr: wyświetla poziom sygnału audio na deckach 1
i 2.


Fader głośności*: reguluje głośność decka.


Crossfader: pozwala utworzyć przejście między dwiema
ścieżkami przez zwiększenie głośności jednego z decków
przy jednoczesnym zmniejszeniu głośności drugiego
decka.
   − Crossfader w skrajnym lewym położeniu: słychać
       tylko ścieżkę z decka 1.
   − Crossfader w skrajnym prawym położeniu: słychać
       tylko ścieżkę z decka 2.
   − Crossfader w położeniu środkowym: jednocześnie
       słychać ścieżki z decków 1 i 2.
                              39
Przełącznik krzywej: umożliwia modyfikację krzywej
crossfadera.
  −       (mix): stopniowe miksowanie dźwięku z obu
      decków.
  −       (scratch): bardzo szybkie miksowanie dźwięku
      z obu decków.
  −        (wyłączenie): crossfader wyłączony w celu
      miksowania przy użyciu samych faderów głośności.




W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro można
zmodyfikować ustawienia crossfadera. Przejdź do
ustawień, a następnie do obszaru Mixer:
 − Power (Moc): dynamiczna krzywa do skreczowania.
 − Linear (Liniowo): łagodna krzywa do miksowania.
 − Reverse      (Odwrócenie):      odwraca      kierunek
   crossfadera: jest to tzw. tryb „Hamster”.




*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.




                           40
  11.      Efekty




Aby wyświetlić strefę efektów:
  − W programie DJUCED: kliknij            .
  − W programie Serato DJ Lite: kliknij         .


Przyciski efektów           /     /     *: umożliwiają wybór
efektu ze strefy efektów. Odpowiedni przycisk zacznie
świecić.
Aby włączyć efekt, użyj dźwigni czynności.
Aby zmodyfikować efekty powiązane z przyciskami               /
  /        , wybierz nowy efekt ze strefy efektów.
W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro
możesz także nacisnąć SHIFT i               ,       lub   , aby
wyświetlić     listę   efektów,       a następnie    ponownie
nacisnąć SHIFT i        ,       lub     , aby przejrzeć listę
i wybrać nowy efekt.




W programie Serato DJ Lite:
− Można jednocześnie zastosować wiele połączonych
  efektów.

                                41
− Trzy efekty          /   /            po lewej stronie są
  stosowane do lewego decka (deck 1), a trzy efekty
     /      /       po prawej stronie są stosowane do
  prawego decka (deck 2).
W programie Serato DJ Pro dwie grupy obejmujące
po trzy przyciski efektów są stosowane do dwóch
decków wirtualnych.


Dźwignia czynności*: umożliwia włączenie efektu
powiązanego z przyciskiem           ,      lub   . Są dostępne
trzy położenia:
  − HOLD: gdy dźwignia znajduje się w tym położeniu,
    efekt jest włączony na stałe.
  − ON: gdy dźwignia znajduje się w tym położeniu,
    efekt jest włączony chwilowo.
  − Położenie środkowe: efekt wyłączony.


Pokrętło DEPTH: reguluje natężenie efektu.


Przyciski       /    : regulują czas trwania cyklu efektu
zsynchronizowanego z muzyką.




Program DJUCED nie zawiera tej funkcji.


*Ta funkcja jest identyczna na deckach 1 i 2.

                               42
Złącza




  12.   Wyjście głośnikowe Master (wyjście 1–2)
  13.   Zbalansowane wejście mikrofonu
  14.   Port USB-B 2.0
  15.   Przycisk POWER
  16.   Złącze zasilacza
  17.   Wyjście słuchawek (wyjście 3–4)


Wyjście głośnikowe Master (wyjście 1–2): umożliwia
podłączenie głośników aktywnych.
Formaty:      2 x niezbalansowane       RCA       (Cinch)
i 2 x zbalansowane XLR.


Zbalansowane       wejście       mikrofonu:   umożliwia
podłączenie     mikrofonu        zbalansowanego       lub
niezbalansowanego.
Format: jack 6,35 mm.


                            43
Port USB-B 2.0: umożliwia podłączenie kontrolera do
komputera.


Przycisk POWER: umożliwia włączanie i wyłączanie
kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7.


Złącze zasilacza: umożliwia podłączenie kabla zasilania
oraz podłączenie kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 do
gniazda elektrycznego za pośrednictwem zasilacza.


Wyjście      słuchawek   (wyjście    3–4):   umożliwia
podłączenie słuchawek na potrzeby odsłuchiwania
ścieżek.
Formaty: złącze minijack stereo 3,5 mm i złącze jack
stereo 6,35 mm.




                          44
Rozłożenie czterech nóżek powoduje podwyższenie
kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7, dzięki czemu można
pod nim poprowadzić kable.




− Złóż   nóżki    przed    transportowaniem    kontrolera
  DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Złóż   nóżki,    jeśli   nie   korzystasz   z kontrolera
  DJControl Inpulse T7.
− Gdy nóżki są rozłożone, nie naciskaj na kontroler
  DJControl Inpulse T7 z masą przekraczającą 5 kg /
  siłą przekraczającą 50 niutonów.




                            45
 4.     Instalacja

Połączenia
 1. Podłącz      zasilacz     do     kontrolera    DJControl
   Inpulse T7.
 2. Podłącz kabel zasilania do zasilacza i do gniazda
   elektrycznego.
 3. Podłącz    kabel    USB    do     kontrolera   DJControl
   Inpulse T7 i do komputera.
 4. Naciśnij przycisk POWER w kontrolerze DJControl
   Inpulse T7. Przycisk pozostanie wciśnięty.
 5. Upewnij się, że głośniki są wyłączone lub – jeśli są
   podłączone do wzmacniacza zewnętrznego – że
   wzmacniacz        jest   wyłączony.    Podłącz     wejścia
   głośników aktywnych do wyjść głośnikowych Master
   w kontrolerze DJControl Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA lub
   2 x XLR).
 6. Ustaw     minimalny     poziom     głośności    MASTER
   w kontrolerze DJControl Inpulse T7, a następnie
   włącz głośniki.
 7. Załóż słuchawki na szyję (nie na uszy), a następnie
   podłącz je do złącza minijack 3,5 mm lub do złącza
   jack 6,35 mm.
 8. Podłącz      mikrofon      do      wejścia      mikrofonu
   (opcjonalnie).




                             46
                          Zasilacz
− Używaj       wyłącznie       zasilacza     wskazanego
  w instrukcji obsługi.
− Używaj zasilacza tylko pod warunkiem, że wartość
  i częstotliwość   napięcia      w sieci   jest   zgodna
  z parametrami podanymi na tabliczce znamionowej
  zasilacza.



                             47
− Istnieje   możliwość   jednoczesnego        korzystania
  z obu rodzajów wyjść (XLR i RCA), na przykład
  przez podłączenie jednej pary wyjść do systemu
  nagłośnieniowego, a drugiej pary – do głośników
  odsłuchowych.
− Po   każdym     podłączeniu    kontrolera    DJControl
  Inpulse T7    do   komputera     uruchamiana       jest
  sekwencja podświetlenia diodowego, tzw. Vegas
  Mode. Sekwencja Vegas Mode ma cztery fazy,
  które obejmują włączenie wszystkich diod oraz
  wyświetlenie różnych dostępnych barw na padach
  i podświetlanych       pierścieniach          koderów
  BROWSER.




                          48
Pobieranie oprogramowania

DJUCED

 1. Wejdź na stronę:
   https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Pobierz i zainstaluj program DJUCED®.
 3. Wejdź na stronę:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (w języku angielskim).
 4. Pobierz i zainstaluj pakiet sterowników przeznaczony
   do systemu operacyjnego Twojego komputera.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    System      Windows®        wymaga        zainstalowania
    sterowników     w celu      korzystania     z kontrolera
    DJControl     Inpulse T7     w trybie     ASIO,    który
    zmniejsza     opóźnienia     w porównaniu      z trybem
    WASAPI i ogólnie działa stabilniej.
    Ponadto     sterowniki      umożliwiają      testowanie
    kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 oraz sprawdzanie
    wersji oprogramowania sprzętowego w systemach
    Windows® i macOS®.
 5. Uruchom program DJUCED. Wyświetli się okno
   z informacją, że kontroler DJControl Inpulse T7
   został wykryty i jest gotowy do użycia.




                           49
 Gdy po raz pierwszy uruchomisz program DJUCED®,
 pomaga on w podłączeniu słuchawek i głośników
 aktywnych (lub umożliwia skorzystanie z wbudowanych
 głośników komputera, jeśli nie masz zewnętrznych
 głośników aktywnych). Zanim rozpoczniesz, wykonaj
 krok po kroku wskazówki wyświetlane na ekranie.


Ustawienia audio:
Aby w programie DJUCED® zmienić ustawienia karty
dźwiękowej, kliknij ikonę koła zębatego         w prawym
górnym rogu ekranu. Wyświetli się menu ustawień.
Wybierz kartę Audio, aby wskazać kartę dźwiękową oraz
przypisać wyjścia słuchawek i głośników.

W systemie Windows® standardowa konfiguracja jest
następująca:
  − Audio      device   (Urządzenie   audio):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Wyjście):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                            50
W systemie macOS® standardowa konfiguracja jest
następująca:
  − Audio      device   (Urządzenie   audio):   DJControl
    Inpulse T7
  − Output (Wyjście):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                            51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Wejdź na stronę:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Pobierz i zainstaluj program Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Wejdź na stronę:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (w języku angielskim).
 4. Pobierz      i zainstaluj      pakiet        sterowników
   przeznaczony do systemu operacyjnego Twojego
   komputera.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    System      Windows®         wymaga        zainstalowania
    sterowników      w celu      korzystania     z kontrolera
    DJControl     Inpulse T7      w trybie     ASIO,    który
    zmniejsza     opóźnienia      w porównaniu      z trybem
    WASAPI i ogólnie działa stabilniej.
    Ponadto      sterowniki      umożliwiają      testowanie
    kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 oraz sprawdzanie
    wersji oprogramowania sprzętowego w systemach
    Windows® i macOS®.




                            52
Hercules   DJControl    Inpulse T7   zawiera    licencję
programu Serato DJ Lite, a nie Serato DJ Pro.
Z programu Serato DJ Lite można korzystać bez
ograniczeń czasowych.
Jeśli zainstalujesz program Serato DJ Pro, a nie
Serato DJ Lite, będzie on działać z kontrolerem
DJControl Inpulse T7 przez okres próbny. Jeśli po
zakończeniu    okresu    próbnego    zechcesz     nadal
korzystać z programu Serato DJ Pro, konieczny
będzie zakup jego licencji.




                          53
  5.    Uatrakcyjnianie miksów
Jest wiele sposobów zwiększania atrakcyjności miksów.



Tryby i pady

Pady

W programie DJUCED pady od 1 do 8 wykonują
czynności odpowiadające aktualnie włączonemu trybowi.


W programie Serato DJ Lite pady od 1 do 4 wykonują
czynności odpowiadające aktualnie włączonemu trybowi.
Pady od 5 do 8 wykonują następujące czynności:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (odtwarzanie do tyłu)
  − Pad 6: przewijanie do tyłu
  − Pad 7: przewijanie do przodu
  − Pad 8: Censor. Ta funkcja powoduje odtwarzanie
    ścieżki do tyłu tak długo, jak długo pad pozostaje
    przytrzymany. Po zwolnieniu pada odtwarzanie
    ścieżki jest wznawiane od punktu, do którego
    dotarłoby w przypadku niezastosowania tej funkcji.
    W ten sposób można pominąć wulgarne słowa
    zawarte w tekście utworu.




                          54
Tryby dostępne na padach zależą od używanego
oprogramowania:


Tryby DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

  1        Hot Cue     Hot Cue         Hot Cue

  2    Loop Roll      Auto Loop       Auto Loop
  3        Stems        Stems           Stems
  4        Sampler     Sampler         Sampler
  5    TonePlay           –            Pitch Play
  6        PadFX          –            Loop Roll
  7    Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
  8    BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
** Licencja programu Serato DJ Pro nie wchodzi w skład
zestawu.




                          55
Tryb Hot Cue

Punkt Hot Cue to znacznik (trochę jak zakładka), który
można    wstawić   w    ścieżce,    aby   ułatwić    sobie
odszukiwanie       danego          momentu          ścieżki
i natychmiastowy powrót do niego.


W przypadku programu DJUCED w jednej ścieżce
można wstawić osiem punktów Hot Cue.


W przypadku programu Serato DJ Lite w jednej ścieżce
można wstawić cztery punkty Hot Cue.
W przypadku programu Serato DJ Pro w jednej ścieżce
można wstawić osiem punktów Hot Cue.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu Hot Cue, naciśnij HOT CUE 1.
    Kontrolka przycisku HOT CUE 1 będzie świecić
    światłem ciągłym.
  2. Aby wstawić punkt Hot Cue, naciśnij jeden z padów.
  3. Aby odtwarzać ścieżkę od punktu Hot Cue, naciśnij
    odpowiedni pad.
  4. Aby usunąć punkt Hot Cue, naciśnij jednocześnie
    SHIFT i odpowiedni pad.




                          56
Tryb Loop




W programie DJUCED ten tryb odpowiada trybowi
Loop    Roll.   Podczas   stosowania   pętli    głowica
odtwarzania decka kontynuuje w tle swój normalny
przesuw. Gdy wyłączysz pętlę, odtwarzanie ścieżki
jest wznawiane od punktu, do którego dotarłoby
w przypadku niezastosowania pętli.
W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro ten tryb
odpowiada trybowi Auto Loop.


Pętla to pewna część ścieżki, która jest odtwarzana
cyklicznie.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu Loop, naciśnij LOOP 2.
    Kontrolka    przycisku    LOOP 2   będzie       świecić
    światłem ciągłym.


W programie DJUCED:
  2. Aby zastosować pętlę, naciśnij i przytrzymaj jeden
    z padów.
  3. Aby wyłączyć pętlę, zwolnij odpowiedni pad.


W programie Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Aby zastosować pętlę, naciśnij jeden z padów.
  3. Aby wyłączyć pętlę, naciśnij odpowiedni pad.
                           57
Długość pętli:

  Deck 1 / deck 2   DJUCED      Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1        1/16 beatu       1 beat
       Pad 2         ⅛ beatu        2 beaty
       Pad 3         ¼ beatu        4 beaty
       Pad 4         ½ beatu       8 beatów
       Pad 5          1 beat           -
       Pad 6         2 beaty           -
       Pad 7         4 beaty           -
       Pad 8        8 beatów           -




                     58
Tryb Stems

Tryb Stems umożliwia podzielenie ścieżki na cztery
partie (wokalne i instrumentalne), tzw. „stemy”.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu Stems, naciśnij STEMS 3.
    Kontrolka      przycisku    STEMS 3      będzie    świecić
    światłem ciągłym.
  2. Każdy    z padów      od 1     do 4     jest    powiązany
    z określonym stemem. Aby przerwać odtwarzanie
    jednego ze stemów, naciśnij odpowiedni pad.
    Kontrolka pada zgaśnie.
  3. Aby     wznowić     odtwarzanie        stemu,     naciśnij
    odpowiedni pad. Pad zacznie świecić.


Stemy:

     Deck 1 / deck 2                        Stem

           Pad 1                            Wokal
           Pad 2                           Melodia
           Pad 3                             Bas
           Pad 4                           Perkusja




                               59
Kiedy po raz pierwszy włączasz stemy w ścieżce,
podział nie odbywa się natychmiastowo. Operacja ta
może trochę potrwać, ponieważ oprogramowanie DJ
musi przeanalizować ścieżkę oraz wygenerować
poszczególne partie (wokal, melodię, bas i perkusję).


Pamiętaj, aby zaplanować wystarczająco dużo czasu
między      przystąpieniem    do   podziału     stemów
a rozpoczęciem     ich   odtwarzania.   Kiedy     partie
odpowiadające     poszczególnym    stemom       zostaną
wygenerowane,      ich   odtwarzanie    odbywa      się
natychmiastowo.


Do korzystania z trybu Stems potrzebny jest wydajny
komputer.




                             60
Tryb Sampler

Sampel to krótki dźwięk odtwarzany raz (dżingiel) lub
wielokrotnie (pętla) podczas aktualnie odtwarzanej
ścieżki.


W programie DJUCED pady od 1 do 8 umożliwiają
odtwarzanie       ośmiu     sampli      znajdujących     się
w pierwszych              dwóch rzędach             samplera
wielowarstwowego.
Aby    wyświetlić   sampler       wielowarstwowy,    wybierz
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers z menu rozwijanego
w lewej górnej części ekranu programu DJUCED.


W programie Serato DJ Lite pady od 1 do 4 umożliwiają
odtwarzanie sampli.
Aby wyświetlić panel sampli, kliknij           w programie
Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu Sampler, naciśnij SAMPLER 4.
      Kontrolka przycisku SAMPLER 4 będzie świecić
      światłem ciągłym.
  2. Aby odtworzyć sampel, naciśnij jeden z padów.
  3. Aby    przerwać      odtwarzanie     sampla,    naciśnij
      jednocześnie SHIFT i odpowiedni pad.




                             61
Tryb 5




Serato DJ Lite nie udostępnia trybu 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro w połączeniu z wtyczką Pitch 'n Time
udostępnia tryb Pitch Play, który działa na tej samej
zasadzie co tryb TonePlay.


W programie    DJUCED       tryb 5   odpowiada      trybowi
TonePlay. Tryb ten umożliwia odtwarzanie punktu Hot
Cue z użyciem różnych tonów.


  1. Włącz tryb Hot Cue, a następnie wybierz punkt Hot
    Cue.
  2. Aby wejść do trybu 5, naciśnij jednocześnie SHIFT
    i HOT CUE 1. Przycisk HOT CUE 1 zacznie migać.
  3. Aby zmienić ton punktu Hot Cue, naciśnij jeden
    z padów od 2 do 8.
  4. Aby przywrócić pierwotny ton, naciśnij pad 1.




                           62
Zmiana tonu:

    Deck 1 / deck 2            Ton

         Pad 1             Pierwotny ton
         Pad 2                 +1
         Pad 3                 +2
         Pad 4                 +3
         Pad 5                  -1
         Pad 6                  -2
         Pad 7                  -3
         Pad 8                  -4




                      63
Tryb 6




Serato DJ Lite nie udostępnia trybu 6.


W programie      DJUCED     tryb 6      odpowiada    trybowi
PadFX.    Tryb    ten   umożliwia     sterowanie     efektami
dostępnymi w strefie efektów przy użyciu padów.
Efekt czasami oznacza filtr lub kombinację filtrów
zastosowanych do ścieżki w celu zmodyfikowania jej
brzmienia (echo, pogłos itp.).


Aby wyświetlić strefę efektów, kliknij     .


  1. Aby wejść do trybu 6, naciśnij jednocześnie SHIFT
    i LOOP 2. Przycisk LOOP 2 zacznie migać.
  2. Aby wykonać czynność, naciśnij jeden z padów.
  3. Aby wyłączyć efekt, naciśnij odpowiedni pad (1–3).




                            64
Możliwe czynności:

Deck 1 / deck                     Efekty

    Pad 1                    Efekt 1 ze strefy
    Pad 2                    Efekt 2 ze strefy
    Pad 3                    Efekt 3 ze strefy
    Pad 4            Wyświetla/ukrywa strefę efektów
    Pad 5            Zmienia efekt 1 w strefie efektów
    Pad 6            Zmienia efekt 2 w strefie efektów
    Pad 7            Zmienia efekt 3 w strefie efektów
    Pad 8                            -




                            65
Tryb 7




W programie DJUCED tryb 7 odpowiada trybowi
Slicer Loop. W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ
Pro tryb 7 odpowiada trybowi Manual Loop.


W programie DJUCED tryb 7 odpowiada trybowi Slicer
Loop. Tryb ten umożliwia podzielenie aktywnej pętli na
osiem części.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu 7 (Slicer Loop), naciśnij
    jednocześnie SHIFT i STEMS 3. Przycisk STEMS 3
    zacznie migać.
  2. Aby odtwarzać jedną z części jako pętlę, naciśnij
    i przytrzymaj odpowiedni pad.
  3. Aby   przerwać    odtwarzanie   części,   zwolnij
    odpowiedni pad.




                          66
W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro tryb 7
odpowiada trybowi Manual Loop. Tryb ten umożliwia
ręczne włączenie pętli.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu 7 (Manual Loop), naciśnij
    jednocześnie SHIFT i STEMS 3. Przycisk STEMS 3
    zacznie migać.
  2. Aby wykonać czynność, naciśnij jeden z padów.


Możliwe czynności:

   Deck 1/2                         Efekty

    Pad 1            Pierwsze naciśnięcie: ustawia punkt
                               początkowy (IN)
                     Drugie naciśnięcie: modyfikuje punkt

    Pad 2            Pierwsze naciśnięcie: ustawia punkt
                                 końcowy (OUT)
                     Drugie naciśnięcie: modyfikuje punkt

    Pad 3                   Włącza/wyłącza pętlę
    Pad 4             Przesuwa głowicę odtwarzania na
                 początek pętli i zaczyna odtwarzać pętlę
                                   (Reloop)

   Koder                    Wydłuża/skraca pętlę
 AUTOLOOP




                            67
Tryb 8




W programie DJUCED tryb 8 odpowiada trybowi
BeatJump. W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ
Pro tryb 8 odpowiada trybowi Scratch Banks.

W programie      DJUCED      tryb 8    odpowiada     trybowi
BeatJump. Tryb ten umożliwia wykonanie precyzyjnego
skoku w obrębie ścieżki.


  1. Aby   wejść   do      trybu 8     (BeatJump),    naciśnij
    jednocześnie    SHIFT         i SAMPLER 4.       Przycisk
    SAMPLER 4 zacznie migać.
  2. Aby wykonać skok, naciśnij jeden z padów.


Długość skoku:

 Deck 1 / deck 2                        Skok

      Pad 1                  Cofnięcie się o 1 beat
      Pad 2              Przejście do przodu o 1 beat
      Pad 3                  Cofnięcie się o 2 beaty
      Pad 4             Przejście do przodu o 2 beaty
      Pad 5                  Cofnięcie się o 4 beaty
      Pad 6             Przejście do przodu o 4 beaty
      Pad 7                 Cofnięcie się o 8 beatów
      Pad 8             Przejście do przodu o 8 beatów


                             68
W programach Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro tryb 8
odpowiada trybowi Scratch Banks. W trybie tym można
błyskawicznie załadować na deck sampel skreczowy,
aby wykonać na zmotoryzowanym talerzu skrecz
zastępujący obecnie odtwarzaną ścieżkę, a następnie
szybko wrócić do obecnie odtwarzanej ścieżki.
Aby wyświetlić panel sampli skreczowych, kliknij
w programie Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Aby wejść do trybu 8 (Scratch Banks), naciśnij
    jednocześnie    SHIFT      i SAMPLER 4.     Przycisk
    SAMPLER 4 zacznie migać.
  2. Aby odtworzyć sampel skreczowy, naciśnij jeden
    z padów.
  3. Aby przerwać odtwarzanie sampla skreczowego
    i wrócić do wcześniej odtwarzanej ścieżki, naciśnij
    jednocześnie SHIFT i odpowiedni pad.


Sample:

    Deck 1 / deck 2                 Sampel

          Pad 1                       Ahh!
          Pad 2                     Hey You!
          Pad 3                      Oww!
          Pad 4                      Yeah!




                          69
Skreczowanie
Skreczowanie            polega         na           utworzeniu
charakterystycznego       efektu   dźwiękowego          przez
obracanie       zmotoryzowanego          talerza      podczas
odtwarzania ścieżki.


Połóż    palec      wskazujący     na       górnej      części
zmotoryzowanego talerza i wykonuj niewielkie, szybkie
ruchy w prawo i lewo.


Czynność tę możesz powtórzyć wiele razy w celu
uzyskania rytmu.




 − Zanim    zaczniesz       skreczować      lub    miksować,
   koniecznie      umieść    filcową     slipmatę     między
   zmotoryzowanym talerzem i płytą winylową.
 − Umieszczając płytę winylową na zmotoryzowanym
   talerzu, nie dociskaj jej. Dociskanie płyty grozi
   uszkodzeniem jej środkowej części.




                             70
Filtry
Regulując filtr w ścieżce, można wytłumić określone
częstotliwości.


  − Tłumienie     wysokich    częstotliwości   (tzw.   filtr
    dolnoprzepustowy): obróć pokrętło filtru (FILTER)
    w lewo.
  − Tłumienie     niskich    częstotliwości    (tzw.   filtr
    górnoprzepustowy): obróć pokrętło filtru (FILTER)
    w prawo.




                             71
  6.       Wielokanałowa                              karta
    dźwiękowa
Kontroler    DJControl     Inpulse T7     ma      wbudowaną
wielokanałową     kartę   dźwiękową,      która    umożliwia
odtwarzanie miksu przez głośniki dla publiczności
(wyjście    głośnikowe    Master),    odsłuchiwanie    przez
słuchawki następnej, aktualnie przygotowywanej ścieżki
(wyjście słuchawek) oraz używanie mikrofonu i/lub
urządzenia     wyposażonego          w wyjście    o poziomie
liniowym jako źródła audio.




                              72
Wyjście              głośnikowe                 Master
(wyjście 1-2)
Głośniki aktywne należy podłączyć do dwóch wyjść
głośnikowych Master znajdujących się z tyłu kontrolera DJ.




Istnieje możliwość jednoczesnego korzystania z obu
rodzajów wyjść, na przykład przez podłączenie jednej
pary wyjść do systemu nagłośnieniowego, a drugiej
pary – do głośników odsłuchowych.




                           73
Wyjście słuchawek (wyjście 3–4)
Słuchawki należy podłączyć do jednego z dwóch wyjść
słuchawek     znajdujących się z przodu kontrolera DJ.




Po   każdym    podłączeniu      kontrolera    DJ   wyjście
słuchawek domyślnie jest przypisywane do wyjścia 3–4,
co umożliwia jego współpracę ze wszystkimi dostępnymi
programami     DJ-skimi,        w tym      w szczególności
z DJUCED® i Serato DJ Lite.


Jeśli jednak chcesz użyć wyjścia słuchawek na przykład
do słuchania muzyki na komputerze za pomocą iTunes,
musisz przekierować wyjście 1–2 na wyjście słuchawek.
W tym celu naciśnij przycisk            znajdujący się pod
VU-metrem MASTER.


                           74
Nie zalecamy jednoczesnego podłączania dwóch par
słuchawek (np. jednej pary do wyjścia minijack
3,5 mm, a drugiej do wyjścia jack 6,35 mm). Jeśli obie
pary słuchawek nie mają tej samej impedancji,
głośność przekazywanego przez nie dźwięku będzie
różna.




                         75
Wejście mikrofonu
Mikrofon   należy    podłączyć   do   wejścia   mikrofonu
znajdującego się z tyłu kontrolera DJ. Wejście mikrofonu
jest zbalansowane.




                           76
Można do niego podłączyć mikrofon zbalansowany
lub   niezbalansowany.       Mikrofon   zbalansowany
pozwala uzyskać wyraźniejszy, mocniejszy dźwięk
z mniejszą    ilością    szumów   oddechowych.   Jeśli
mikrofon zbalansowany nie zostanie podłączony za
pomocą kabla zbalansowanego, kabel obniży jakość
dźwięku przekazywanego przez mikrofon.


                  Kabel zbalansowany

      Tip (Końcówka)
      Ring (Pierścień)

       Sleeve (Tuleja)




                Kabel niezbalansowany

      Tip (Końcówka)


       Sleeve (Tuleja)




                           77
  7.      Zgodność

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Ten kontroler DJ jest urządzeniem typu Plug & Play, które
współpracuje bez sterowników z programem DJUCED
na dowolnym komputerze PC lub Mac, ponieważ jest
zgodne ze standardami USB Audio i USB MIDI.



ASIO i panel sterowania w systemie
Windows®
Aby      używać      kontrolera      DJControl    Inpulse T7
z programem Serato DJ Lite, należy zainstalować
sterowniki ASIO. Sterowniki ASIO są dostępne tutaj:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Jeśli używasz programu DJUCED, również możesz
pobrać sterowniki ASIO, aby skorzystać z mniejszego
opóźnienia na komputerze PC.


Sterowniki ASIO są dostarczane z panelem sterowania,
który    jest   dostępny   na     pasku   zadań   komputera
i w katalogu      C:\Program         Files\DJHERCULESMIX\
Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\. Panel ten umożliwia
konfigurowanie różnych ustawień ASIO, takich jak
rozmiary buforów i opóźnienie.
                                78
Aby dostosować ustawienia ASIO:
  − Ustaw rozmiar bufora ASIO równy 4 lub 8 ms.
  − Uruchom oprogramowanie (np. DJUCED®) i wybierz
    sterownik DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO):




Gdy oprogramowanie zacznie korzystać ze sterownika
ASIO, w panelu sterowania nie będzie już można
modyfikować   ustawień   ASIO.    Jest   to   całkowicie
normalne i wskazuje, że sterownik ASIO jest używany.




                         79
Przy użyciu oprogramowania posłuchaj uważnie, czy nie
występują    żadne   usterki    lub   artefakty   dźwiękowe
(trzaski, puknięcia) ani problemy z opóźnieniem. Jeśli
usłyszysz usterki lub artefakty, w celu rozwiązania tego
problemu musisz zwiększyć rozmiar bufora.


Zamknij     oprogramowanie        i dopasuj    bufor   ASIO,
zmieniając wartości pojedynczo:
  − Zmniejsz      rozmiar      bufora,   aby      zmniejszyć
    opóźnienie.
  − Zwiększ rozmiar bufora, jeśli w dźwięku słychać
    usterki lub artefakty.


Procedurę tę należy powtarzać do czasu znalezienia
optymalnego rozmiaru bufora w danym systemie.


Sterowniki są dostępne tutaj:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Aktualizacja                         oprogramowania
sprzętowego
Kontroler DJ udostępnia tryb automatycznej aktualizacji
oprogramowania         sprzętowego.            Wymaga          on
zainstalowania    sterowników        Hercules         i wykonania
instrukcji   wyświetlanych      na    ekranie.        Aktualizacja
oprogramowania      sprzętowego           będzie   wykonywana
automatycznie.


Sterowniki są dostępne tutaj:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Również panel sterowania umożliwia dostęp do tych
informacji     i wyświetlenie        na      karcie       ABOUT
(INFORMACJE) wersji sterowników zainstalowanych na
komputerze. Dane te należy przygotować, jeśli zajdzie
potrzeba skontaktowania się z pomocą techniczną firmy
Hercules.




                             81
Testowanie           kontrolera            DJ     w panelu
sterowania
W sekcji ABOUT (INFORMACJE) panelu sterowania
kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 możesz przetestować
dźwięk    kontrolera,    jego    funkcje   sterowania     MIDI
i elementy świetlne oraz zmotoryzowane talerze.


Aby uzyskać dostęp do panelu sterowania, przejdź do
następującego               katalogu:              C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Test dźwięku

Aby sprawdzić bez oprogramowania DJ, czy interfejs
audio kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 generuje dźwięk,
kliknij ikonę głośnika. Podczas testu ikona ma zielony
kolor,   a program      odtwarza     dźwięk     przez   wyjścia
głośnikowe Master i wyjścia słuchawek.




                                82
  2. Test funkcji sterowania MIDI

Aby sprawdzić bez oprogramowania DJ, czy działają
funkcje   sterowania   MIDI    dostępne     w kontrolerze
DJControl Inpulse T7, spróbuj użyć przycisków lub
innych    elementów     sterujących,      które   chcesz
przetestować. Jeśli ikona złącza DIN zmieni kolor na
zielony, będzie to oznaczać, że polecenie MIDI zostało
odebrane i dany przycisk lub inny element sterujący
działa prawidłowo.




                          83
  3. Test elementów świetlnych

Aby sprawdzić bez oprogramowania DJ, czy działają
diody kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7, kliknij ikonę
żarówki, aby włączyć diody. Podczas testu ikona
zmienia kolor na zielony, a diody kontrolera włączają się.




Wszystkie diody kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7
można także włączyć przez jednoczesne naciśnięcie
przycisków IN i OUT na obu deckach.




                           84
  4. Test zmotoryzowanych talerzy

Aby sprawdzić bez oprogramowania DJ, czy działają
zmotoryzowane talerze kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7,
kliknij ikonę talerza 1 lub 2. Podczas testu ikony
odpowiedniego talerza i złącza DIN mają zielony kolor,
a sam zmotoryzowany talerz porusza się (obraca) na
kontrolerze.


Test zmotoryzowanego talerza nr 1:




Test zmotoryzowanego talerza nr 2:




                         85
  8.       Tryb demo
Ten tryb włącza się w przypadku podłączenia kontrolera
DJ do źródła zasilania USB bez komputera i jest
używany     przede     wszystkim   w sklepie.     W takim
przypadku kontroler DJ nie działa, ale znajduje się
w trybie   demo   i stale   powtarzana   jest   sekwencja
pokazowa, w której włączane są poszczególne elementy
świetlne kontrolera.




                            86
  9.     Często zadawane pytania

 1.      Nie          słychać                dźwięku
      w słuchawkach.
Upewnij się, że słuchawki zostały podłączone z przodu
kontrolera DJ, ponieważ kontroler jest wyposażony
w wielokanałową     kartę        dźwiękową   fabrycznie
skonfigurowaną do współpracy z programami DJUCED®
i Serato DJ Lite.
Przy pierwszym uruchomieniu programu domyślnie
włączane są dwa przyciski odsłuchu. Następnie możesz
wybrać jeden z decków i słuchać go przez słuchawki lub
nacisnąć przycisk      znajdujący się pod VU-metrem
MASTER, aby posłuchać efektów miksowania.




                            87
  2.      Dźwięk      w słuchawkach               jest
    zniekształcony lub zbyt cichy.
Upewnij się, że słuchawki są wyposażone w złącze TRS
(zwykłe słuchawki), a nie w złącze TRRS (słuchawki +
mikrofon).


   Tip (Końcówka)                    Tip (Końcówka)
   Ring (Pierścień)                  Ring (Pierścień)
                                     Ring (Pierścień)
    Sleeve (Tuleja)
                                     Sleeve (Tuleja)




Złącza TRRS nie są zgodne z kontrolerem DJControl
Inpulse T7.




                        88
  3.     Nie          słychać             dźwięku
    w głośnikach.
Upewnij się, że głośniki zostały podłączone do złączy
RCA lub XLR z tyłu kontrolera DJ, ponieważ kontroler
jest wyposażony w wielokanałową kartę dźwiękową
fabrycznie skonfigurowaną do współpracy z programami
DJUCED® i Serato DJ Lite.


Aby sprawdzić (bez oprogramowania DJ), czy interfejs
audio kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 generuje dźwięk,
możesz wyświetlić panel sterowania kontrolera DJ.
Kliknij kartę ABOUT (INFORMACJE), a następnie ikonę
głośnika. Podczas odtwarzania dźwięku ikona ma
zielony kolor.




                            89
 4.       Nie              słychać            dźwięku
      w głośnikach laptopa.
Kontroler     DJ    jest     wyposażony       w fabrycznie
skonfigurowaną wielokanałową kartę dźwiękową. Jeśli
chcesz korzystać z wbudowanych głośników laptopa:
  − W programie       DJUCED®        otwórz    ustawienia
      i zaznacz opcję SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS     (WYŚLIJ        SYGNAŁ   MASTER     DO
      GŁOŚNIKÓW KOMPUTERA).




  − W programie Serato DJ Lite otwórz ustawienia,
      przejdź na kartę Audio i zaznacz opcję Use Laptop
      Speakers (Użyj głośników laptopa).




                             90
 5.         Nie           słychać               dźwięku
        w słuchawkach               lub      głośnikach
        laptopa.
Domyślnie dźwięk jest wyprowadzany przez wyjście
głośnikowe Master i wyjście słuchawek. Jest zatem
czymś normalnym, że nie słychać dźwięku w głośnikach
laptopa.


Jeśli     chcesz   korzystać    z wbudowanych    głośników
laptopa:
  − W programie         DJUCED®        otwórz   ustawienia
        i zaznacz opcję SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER
        SPEAKERS      (WYŚLIJ       SYGNAŁ   MASTER     DO
        GŁOŚNIKÓW KOMPUTERA). Musisz podłączyć
        słuchawki do kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7.




                               91
  − W programie Serato DJ Lite otwórz ustawienia,
    przejdź na kartę Audio i zaznacz opcję Use Laptop
    Speakers      (Użyj   głośników    laptopa).   Musisz
    podłączyć     słuchawki    do   kontrolera   DJControl
    Inpulse T7.




Aby sprawdzić (bez oprogramowania DJ), czy interfejs
audio kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7 generuje dźwięk,
możesz wyświetlić panel sterowania kontrolera DJ.
Kliknij kartę ABOUT (INFORMACJE), a następnie ikonę
głośnika. Podczas odtwarzania dźwięku ikona ma
zielony kolor.




                              92
  6.      Mam          problemy                 z jakością
    dźwięku w systemie Windows®.

Głośność odtwarzanej ścieżki jest zbyt mała

Głośność główna w oprogramowaniu DJ jest niezależna od
elementów sterowania głośnością w kontrolerze DJ. Dlatego
w przypadku, gdy ustawisz niski poziom głośności głównej
w oprogramowaniu DJ, również poziom głośności na
wyjściu Master będzie niski.

Sprawdź    głośność    w oprogramowaniu          DJ    i w razie
potrzeby ją zwiększ.

  − W programie     DJUCED         użyj   przycisku   głośności
    umieszczonego na pasku w prawej górnej części okna.




  − W programie Serato DJ Lite użyj przycisku głośności
    umieszczonego na pasku w prawej górnej części okna.




                               93
Głośność w słuchawkach jest zbyt mała

W programie Serato DJ Lite przejdź do ustawień, otwórz
kartę Audio i anuluj zaznaczenie opcji Use Laptop
Speakers (Użyj głośników laptopa).




                          94
Jeśli opcja Use Laptop Speakers (Użyj głośników
laptopa) musi pozostać zaznaczona, ustaw wbudowaną
kartę dźwiękową komputera jako „głośniki komputera”:
  1. Zamknij program Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Otwórz ustawienia systemu Windows i przejdź do
    obszaru System, a następnie Sound (Dźwięk).
  3. W obszarze Output (Wyjście) wybierz wbudowaną
    kartę dźwiękową komputera. Kontrolera DJ już nie
    będzie można ustawić jako wyjścia.




System Windows® mógł ustawić kontroler DJ jako kartę
dźwiękową Windows®. Jeśli zachowasz to ustawienie,
opcja Use Laptop Speakers (Użyj głośników laptopa)
umożliwi wyprowadzenie wyjścia Master na 4-kanałowe
wyjście kontrolera DJ (wyjście Master + słuchawki).




                           95
Dźwięk jest niewyraźny

W programie DJUCED®:
Zalecamy      korzystanie     z urządzenia     audio     ASIO.
W przypadku      urządzenia     WASAPI       jakość    dźwięku
zazwyczaj jest dobra, jednak może dojść do wzrostu
opóźnienia, a dźwięk może być niewyraźny.


Otwórz      ustawienia,   kliknij   kartę    Audio     i wybierz
DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) jako Audio device
(Urządzenie audio).




W programie Serato DJ Lite:
Przejdź do ustawień, otwórz kartę Audio i anuluj
zaznaczenie opcji Use Laptop Speakers (Użyj głośników
laptopa).




                              96
 7. Nie       mogę          podłączyć         głośników
    multimedialnych                   do        mojego
    kontrolera DJControl Inpulse T7.
Jeśli złącza głośników różnią się od złączy w kontrolerze
DJControl     Inpulse T7,    możesz    użyć    przejściówki
z podwójnego złącza RCA na złącze minijack 3,5 mm
(do nabycia osobno) w celu podłączenia głośników
multimedialnych, przejściówki z podwójnego złącza XLR
na złącze jack 6,35 mm (do nabycia osobno) w celu
podłączenia      systemu    nagłośnieniowego    lub   innej
przejściówki odpowiedniej do posiadanych głośników.
Możesz także podłączyć głośniki do wyjścia słuchawek
i przekierować wyjście 1–2 na wyjście 3–4, naciskając
przycisk       znajdujący się pod VU-metrem MASTER.



  8.       Czy        kontroler               DJControl
    Inpulse T7 jest zgodny z iPadem lub
    iPhonem?
Nie, kontroler DJControl Inpulse T7 nie jest zgodny
z iPadem ani iPhonem. Działa wyłącznie z komputerem
PC lub Mac.




                             97
  9.    Jak             podłączyć               kontroler
    DJControl Inpulse T7 do portu USB-
    C lub portu Thunderbolt 3?
Kontroler DJControl Inpulse T7 można podłączyć do
portu USB-C lub portu Thunderbolt 3 na trzy sposoby:
  − Przez      użycie   przejściówki   (ze   złącza     USB-C
    [męskiego] lub Thunderbolt 3 na złącze USB-A
    [żeńskie]) między komputerem i kontrolerem DJ.
    Zwróć uwagę, że niektóre tanie przejściówki nie
    działają     prawidłowo,    ponieważ     odcinają   część
    zasilania.
  − Przez użycie doku (USB-C lub Thunderbolt 3)
    między komputerem i kontrolerem DJ. Taki dok
    musi mieć odrębne zasilanie, ponieważ dok zasilany
    wyłącznie za pośrednictwem portu USB-C lub
    Thunderbolt 3 może nie zapewniać wystarczająco
    dużo energii.
  − Przez zastąpienie dostarczonego w zestawie kabla
    USB kablem wyposażonym w złącze USB-C lub
    Thunderbolt 3 oraz USB-B 2.0.




                               98
   POMOC TECHNICZNA
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Znaki towarowe
Intel® i Intel Core™ są znakami towarowymi lub zastrzeżonymi znakami
towarowymi firmy Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 jest zastrzeżonym znakiem towarowym firmy
Microsoft Corporation w USA i/lub innych krajach.
Mac® i macOS® są znakami towarowymi firmy Apple Inc., zastrzeżonymi
w USA i innych krajach.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite i Serato DJ Pro są zastrzeżonymi znakami
towarowymi firmy Serato Audio Research Limited.
Marka DJUCED i elementy graficzne DJUCED są własnością firmy
Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO jest znakiem towarowym firmy Steinberg Media Technologies
GmbH.
Wszystkie inne znaki towarowe i nazwy towarowe są za takie uznawane
w tym dokumencie oraz stanowią własność odpowiednich podmiotów.
Ilustracje nie są wiążące prawnie. Treść, wzory i dane techniczne
zawarte w tym dokumencie mogą ulec zmianie bez powiadomienia oraz
różnić się w zależności od kraju.




                                    100
Prawa autorskie
Żadnej części niniejszej instrukcji nie wolno powielać, streszczać,
przesyłać,      przepisywać,   przechowywać    w systemie     wyszukiwania
informacji ani tłumaczyć na jakikolwiek język ludzki lub komputerowy w
jakiejkolwiek     formie   i jakimikolwiek   środkami –     elektronicznymi,
mechanicznymi,       magnetycznymi,    ręcznymi,   przez    fotokopiowanie,
rejestrowanie, ręcznie lub w inny sposób – bez wyraźnej pisemnej zgody
firmy Guillemot Corporation S.A.




                                    101
Umowa               licencyjna                użytkownika
programów DJUCED® i Serato DJ
Lite
Prosimy o uważne zapoznanie się z umową licencyjną wyświetloną
podczas instalacji programu DJUCED® i Serato DJ Lite.




                                 102
ユーザーズマニュアル
                                              目次

1.   パッケージ内容 ................................................ 6

     Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition .................. 8

2.   技術仕様 ....................................................... 10

3.   特長 .............................................................. 13

     概要........................................................................................................ 13

     デッキ .................................................................................................... 14

     ミキシング........................................................................................... 32

     コネクター ........................................................................................... 43

4.   設置 .............................................................. 46

     接続........................................................................................................ 46

     ソフトウェアのダウンロード .................................................... 49

5.   ミックスにパンチを加える ................................ 54

     モードおよびパッド ....................................................................... 54

     スクラッチング ................................................................................. 70

     フィルター............................................................................................ 71
6.   マルチチャンネル サウンドカード .................... 72

     スピーカー用 Master 出力 (出力 1-2) ........................... 73

     ヘッドフォン出力 (出力 3-4) .................................................. 74

     マイク入力.......................................................................................... 76

7.   互換性 ........................................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI.............................................................. 78

     ASIO および Windows® コントロールパネル............... 78

     ファームウェアのアップデート .............................................. 81

     コントロールパネルで DJ コントローラーをテスト .. 82

8.   デモモード...................................................... 86

9.   FAQ ............................................................... 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 は、電動プラッター、ビデオ
チュートリアル、DJUCED  および Serato DJ Lite ソフトウェ
アとの統合により、ヴァイナルターンテーブルの技術を簡単
にマスターできるように設計された高性能コントローラーです。




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 には Serato DJ Lite のラ
イセンスが含まれていますが、Serato DJ Pro のライセン
スは含まれていません。
Serato DJ Lite は、一切の時間制限なしで使用できます。
Serato DJ Lite でなく Serato DJ Pro をインストールした場
合 、 Serato DJ Pro は 試 用 期 間 中 の み DJControl
Inpulse T7 でお使いいただけます。試用期間の終了後も
Serato DJ Pro をご使用になりたい場合は、Serato DJ Pro
のライセンスをご購入いただく必要があります。



                        4
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーを使ったミ
キシングを学ぶのに役立つ、さまざまなビデオチュートリア
ルが用意されています:
 − Hercules DJ Academy (英語):
      o DJUCED で、    アイコンをクリックします。
      o DJUCED ウェブサイト上。
 − Hercules Audio YouTube チャンネル (英語)。
 − The DJ Coach、DJ HAPA による Serato DJ Lite コ
   ース (英語)。




                      5
 1.   パッケージ内容

Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7

 − ヴァイナルレコード 2 枚 (7 インチ)
 − フェルト製スリップマット 2 枚
 − 編組 USB ケーブル
 − 着脱式電源ケーブル
 − 電源アダプター
 − 取扱説明書
 − 保証書カード




                  6
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーの VU メー
ターを覆っている保護フィルムは取り外すことができます。
VU メーターの使用には影響しないため、保護フィルムを
そのままにしておくこともできます。




                     7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − ヴァイナルレコード 2 枚 (7 インチ)
 − フェルト製スリップマット 2 枚
 − 薄手のフェルト製スリップマット 2 枚
 − 編組 USB ケーブル
 − 着脱式電源ケーブル
 − 電源アダプター
 − キャリーバッグ
 − 取扱説明書
 − 保証書カード




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition コントロ
ーラーの VU メーターを覆っている保護フィルムは取り外
すことができます。 VU メーターの使用には影響しないた
め、保護フィルムをそのままにしておくこともできます。




                          9
 2.       技術仕様

システム要件:
 − DJUCED:       https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
      (英語のみ)
 − Serato DJ Lite:
      https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemrequirem
      ents#system-requirements (英語のみ)


オーディオ出力:
            o 解像度 = 24 ビット
            o サンプルレート = 44.1 kHz


スピーカー用 Master 出力 (出力 1～2):
 − RCA コネクター 2 個:
            o 最大出力パワー = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
 − XLR コネクター 2 個 (バランス):
            o 最大出力パワー = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


3.5mm ステレオミニジャックコネクター 1 系統と、6.35mm ステレ
オジャックコネクター 1 系統によるヘッドフォン出力 (出力 3～4):
            o 最大出力パワー = 5 dBU、32Ω @ 1 kHz


6.35mm ジャックコネクター (バランス) 1 系統によるマイク入力


                            10
            電源
− ユーザーズマニュアルに記載されている電源ユニット以
 外は使用しないでください。
− 電源ユニットの定格プレートに記載されているネットワ
 ーク電圧および周波数の電源のみを使用してください。




            11
             電源に関する情報
  公開情報                    値            単位
メーカー名または GUILLEMOT CORPORATION S.A.
   商標      414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
  企業番号       2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
   所在地             56910 Carentoir
                        フランス
 モデル識別子            A481-1852590D
  入力電圧               100 - 240          V
入力 AC 周波数               50 - 60         Hz
  出力電圧                   18.5          V DC
  出力電流                    2.6           A
 出力パワー                   47.9           W
平均アクティブ効                 87.8           %
   率
低負荷時の効率                  87.8           %
  (10%)
無負荷時の消費                  0.10           W
   電力




                   12
3.     特長

概要




1. 電動プラッター
2. トランスポートボタン (Play、Cue、Sync、Shift)
3. ループコントロール (Loop)
4. ト ラ ッ ク 選 択 コ ン ト ロ ー ル    (Browser 、 Load 、
     Assist./Prep.)
5. テンポフェーダー (Pitch fader)
6. パッドおよびモード
7. 再生モード
8. モニタリング、ボリューム (Master、ヘッドフォンとマイ
     ク) および Beatmatch Guide
9. ミキシング部 (Gain、EQ、Filter)
10. ミキサー (クロスフェーダー、ボリュームフェーダー)
11. エフェクト

                      13
デッキ

 1. 電動プラッター




フェルト製スリップマット：電動プラッターとヴァイナルレコード
の間に敷くマットです。ヴァイナルレコードがプラッターと擦れ
ないように保護し、再生時の振動を抑えます。




ヴァイナルレコードをセットする前に、必ずフェルト製スリッ
プマットを電動プラッターの上に置いてください。




              14
ヴァイナルレコード: スクラッチしたり、再生速度を増減したり、
トラック内を移動したりできます。
ヴァイナルレコード上の線は、ミキシングやスクラッチの基準
点 (つまりマーカー) です。


実行されるアクションは、次の 2 つの条件によって異なりま
す:
 − トラック再生中または一時停止中、
 − ヴァイナルレコードに触れている場所 (トップ (top) また
     はリング (ring))。



                     トップ




     リング




                     15
Serato DJ Lite および Serato DJ Pro 使用時のヴァイナル
レコードの動作:


 再生/一時停止        電動プラッター        SHIFT ボタン

     再生            トップ             -

                スクラッチング

     再生          トップ/リング         長押し

            トラック内をすばやく移動

     再生            リング             -

        再生速度がアップまたはダウンします

   一時停止          トップ/リング           -

             トラック内をゆっくり移動

   一時停止          トップ/リング         長押し

            トラック内をすばやく移動




                    16
DJUCED によるヴァイナルレコードのアクション:



 再生/一時停止     電動プラッター      SHIFT ボタン

    再生         トップ            -

             スクラッチング

    再生       トップ/リング        長押し

          トラック内をすばやく移動

    再生         リング            -

      再生速度がアップまたはダウンします

   一時停止        リング            -

           トラック内をゆっくり移動




                17
電動プラッター： テンポフェーダーで設定されたテンポに応じ
て、トラックの再生とトラックの速度を制御するヴァイナルレコ
ードを駆動します。


Beatmatch Guide 機能が有効になっている場合は、2 つのト
ラックのビートグリッドを揃えるために電動プラッターのリング
(エッジ) を回す必要がある方向が、BEAT ALIGN ビジュアル
ガイドによって示されます。 2 つの赤い矢印が消灯している
ときは、ビートグリッドが揃っている状態です。


Beatmatch Guide 機 能 の 詳 細 に つ い て は 、 Beatmatch
Guide のセクションを参照してください。




プラッターの電動動作を無効にすることはできません。




- 駆動システムへの損傷を避けるため、電動プラッターの回
  転中はプラッターを手で長時間停止させないでください。
- ヴァイナルレコードを電動プラッターに置く際に、力を入
  れて無理に押し付けないでください。ヴァイナルレコード
  の中心部を傷つける恐れがあります。


                      18
 2. トランスポートボタン




SHIFT: 複合コントロール。例:
 − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK) トラックのキーをロックし
   ます。
 − SHIFT + IN: DJUCED® 内のアクティブなループのサイ
   ズを 2 で割ります。


SYNC: 2 つのトラックの BPM (ビート/分) 値の自動同期を有
効または無効にします。
 − SHIFT + SYNC:
    o DJUCED 内: デッキをマスター同期 (Master Sync)
      デッキにします。
    o Serato DJ Lite 内: デッキの同期を無効にします。




                   19
CUE: トラックにキューポイントを挿入して特定のタイミングを
識別したり、プデッキの再生ヘッドをキューポイントの位置に
移動したりできます。
 − トラック一時停止: トラックが停止した場所に Cue ポイン
   トを挿入します。
 − トラック再生: トラックの再生を停止し、デッキの再生ヘッ
   ドをキューポイントに移動します。
    o DJUCED でキューポイントが定義されていない
      場合、CUE を押すと再生が停止し、再生ヘッドの位
      置にキューポイントが配置されます。
    o Serato DJ Lite では、キューポイントが定義されて
      いない場合、CUE を押すと再生が停止し、トラック
      の先頭にキューポイントが配置されます。
 − CUE + PLAY: 再生ヘッドをキューポイントに移動し、そ
   のポイントからトラックを再生します。
 − SHIFT + CUE:
    o DJUCED 内: 再生ヘッドをトラックの開始位置に移
      動し、再生を停止します。
    o Serato DJ Lite 内: 再生ヘッドをトラックの開始位置
      に移動し、再生を開始します。


再生/一時停止: トラックを再生または一時停止します。
 − SHIFT+PLAY: Serato DJ Lite では、キューポイントに再
   生ヘッドを移動し、このマーカーからトラックを再生します。


                   20
 3. ループコントロール




AUTOLOOP エンコーダー:
 − エンコーダーを押す: ループの再生を有効または無効に
   します。
 − エンコーダーを回す: ループの長さを調整します。


IN/OUT: インポイント (IN) とアウトポイント (OUT) を選択して
ループを有効にします。
ループがアクティブ (有効) の場合:
 − IN (ボタンが点滅) を押して電動プラッターを回すと、ル
   ープの開始位置が移動します。
 − OUT (ボタンが点滅) を押して電動プラッターを回すと、
   ループの終了位置が移動します。
ループを終了するには、AUTOLOOP エンコーダーを押します。
DJUCED® 内
 − SHIFT + IN: ループのサイズを 2 で割ります。
 − SHIFT + OUT: アクティブなループのサイズを 2 倍にし
   ます。
 − IN 長押し: 4 ビートのループを有効にします。

                   21
 4. トラック選択コントロール




BROWSER エンコーダー: エンコーダーを左 (上) または右
(下) に回して音楽ライブラリとトラックリストをブラウズできま
す。
エンコーダーを押してフォルダを選択し、選択したトラックを
宛先デッキにロードします。


点灯リング:
 − DJUCED では、テンポに対するマスタートラックのエネ
     ルギーレベルを表示します。
 − Serato DJ Lite ではリズムを表示します。トラックのビー
     トに合わせて点滅します。
         o 赤: 最初のビートを示します。
         o 青: 以下の 3 ビートを示します:




                   22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − DJUCED では、ミックスに最適な後続トラックをサジェ
    ストするパネルが表示されます。
    サジェストされたトラックのリストを参照するには、
    BROWSER エンコーダーを回します。
    トラックを選択するには、BROWSER エンコーダーを押し
    ます。なお、このデッキにすでにロードされているトラッ
    クを一時停止する必要があります。
    ASSIST./PREP. を押してからエンコーダーを回して、サ
    ジェストされているトラックのエネルギーレベルを調整し
    ます。
  − Serato DJ Lite では、現在再生中のトラックを Prepare
    (準備)リストに追加します。
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: Prepare (準備) パネルを開き
    ます。


BACK*: DJUCED と Serato DJ Lite 内のツリーをナビゲー
トできます。
  − DJUCED で、SHIFT と BACK を押すとライブラリの列
    に戻ります。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。
                      23
 5. テンポフェーダー




テンポフェーダー: BPM の値を調整することで、トラックの再
生スピードを設定します。
 − 下に移動: トラックの速度がダウンします。
 − 上に移動: トラックの速度がアップします。
 − テンポフェーダーが中央: トラックの元の速度。白 LED
   が点灯します。


Beatmatch Guide 機能が有効になっている場合は、トラックの
速度を遅くしたり速くしたりするために、テンポフェーダーを上
下に動かす必要があるかどうかが、TEMPO ビジュアルガイド
によって示されます。2 つの赤い矢印が消灯しているときは、
そのデッキのテンポはもう一方のデッキのテンポと同じです。


Beatmatch Guide 機 能 の 詳 細 に つ い て は 、 Beatmatch
Guide のセクションを参照してください。

                      24
Serato DJ Lite および Serato DJ Pro では、SYNC モードが
有効な場合、SHIFT を押した状態でテンポフェーダーを同時
に動かすと、振幅を維持しながらテンポフェーダーの値を動
かすことができます。


たとえば、テンポスケールが ±8%、つまり振幅が 16% の場
合、テンポフェーダーの値を 0% (最大) から -16% (最小) に
移動しても、中央に -8% の振幅がある 16% の振幅になりま
す。




                     25
RANGE*: テンポフェーダーのテンポスケールを変更できま
す。
 − DJUCED 内 : ± 6 % 、 ± 8 % 、 ± 10 % 、 ± 12 % 、
     ± 16 %、± 20 %、± 25 %、± 33 %、± 50 %。
 − Serato DJ Lite 内: ±8 %、± 16 %、± 50 %。
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK) トラックのキーをロックします。
キーがロックされていることを確認するには、SHIFT を押しま
す。RANGE ボタンが点灯します。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。

                       26
 6. パッドおよびモード




モードボタン: 最大 8 つのモードを有効にできます。
メインモードを有効にするには、HOT CUE 1、LOOP 2、
STEMS 3、または SAMPLER 4 を押します。
セカンダリモード (MODE 5、MODE 6、MODE 7、および
MODE 8) を有効にするには、SHIFT ボタンと HOT CUE 1、
LOOP 2、STEMS 3、SAMPLER 4 を同時に押します。すると
モードボタンが点滅します。
パッドで有効なモードは、使用するソフトウェアによって異な
ります。


DJUCED、Serato DJ Lite、Serato DJ Pro における各モー
ドの詳細については、モードとパッドのセクションを参照してく
ださい。


パフォーマンスパッド: アクションを実行するパッド。




                     27
 7. 再生モード




INSTRUMENTAL: トラックのメロディー、ベース、ドラムのパ
ートだけを演奏できます。これは Stems モードのショートカッ
トです。
 − メロディー、ベース、ドラムのパートだけを演奏するには、
  INSTRUMENTAL ボタンを押します。ボタンのランプが
  点灯します。
 − トラックの全パート (ボーカル、メロディー、ベース、ドラ
  ム) の再生を再開するには 、もう一度 INSTRUMENTAL
  ボタンを押します。ボタンのランプが消灯します。




                28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: Slip モードを有効または無効にし
ます。Slip モードでは、エフェクトやループをかけたり、CUE
ポイントを置いたり、電動プラッターを使ったりしたときに、デ
ッキの再生ヘッドがバックグラウンドで進み続けます。エフェ
クトの適用を停止すると、再生を続けていた場合のトラックの
位置から再生が再開されます。
Slip モードが有効になっていることを確認するには、SHIFT
を押します。INSTRUMENTAL ボタンが点灯します。




Serato DJ Lite では Slip 機能は利用できません。
Serato DJ Pro には Slip モードが搭載されています。




                   29
VOCAL： トラックのボーカル部分だけを再生できます。これ
は Stems モードのショートカットです。
 − トラックのボーカル部分だけを再生するには、VOCAL
  ボタンを押します。ボタンのランプが点灯します。
 − トラックの全パート (ボーカル、メロディー、ベース、ドラ
  ム) の再生を再開するには 、もう一度 VOCAL ボタンを
  押します。ボタンのランプが消灯します。


SHIFT + VOCAL: クオンタイズモードを有効または無効にし
ます。クオンタイズを使うと、グリッドの次のビートにアクショ
ンを適用できます (トラックを再生する、Cue ポイントを配置
する、ループを開始する、など)。
クオンタイズモードが有効であることを確認するには、SHIFT
を押します。VOCAL ボタンが点灯します。




Serato DJ Lite では クオンタイズモードは利用できませ
ん。
Serato DJ Pro はクオンタイズモードを搭載しています。




                30
     (pitch bend -) /   (pitch bend +): このデッキで再生
されているトラックのビートグリッドを、もう一方のデッキのビ
ートグリッドに手動で合わせることができます。
 −        を押し続けると、デッキが一時的にスローダウンし
     ます。
 −        を押し続けると、デッキが一時的にスピードアップ
     します。




Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、SHIFT +    と
SHIFT +        で特定のモード (設定) で設定を調整でき
ます。




                        31
ミキシング

 8. モニタリング、ボリューム、Beatmatch Guide




MIC ボリューム: マイクのボリュームを調整します。


MIC 点灯リング： オーディオ信号のレベルを示します (VU メ
ーター)。
 − オフ: オーディオ信号がありません。
 − 緑：オーディオ信号が再生中です。
 − 赤: オーディオ信号が飽和しています。


MASTER ボリューム: スピーカーで再生されるミックスのボリ
ュームを調整します。


MASTER VU メーター： スピーカー用 Master 出力 (RCA ま
たは XLR) のオーディオ信号のレベルを表示します。

                  32
HEADPHONES ボリューム:
 −      /     : Cue 出力 (デッキ 1 と 2 のモニタリング) と
     Mix 出力 (Master 出力) をミックスし、ヘッドフォンで再
     生される信号を調整します。
      o モニタリングだけを聴くには、デッキ 1 と 2 のモニ
       タリングボタンを押します。するとボタンが点灯しま
       す。次につまみを Cue に合わせます。
      o Master 出力だけを聴くには、Master モニタリング
       ボタンを押します。するとボタンが点灯します。次に
       つまみを Mix に合わせ、ヘッドフォンで再生される
       ミックスを調整します。
 −          : ヘッドフォン出力のボリュームを調節します。




                       33
モニタリング: ヘッドフォンで再生するソース音源を選択しま
す。
 −      (MASTER VU メーターの下に配置): オーディエン
     スに対して再生中のミックスのサウンドを再生します。
 −      * (BEATMATCH GUIDE ボタンの両側に配置)：
     Cue/Mix ボタンを Cue に設定すると、デッキ 1 または
     デッキ 2 の音が再生されます。
Serato DJ Lite で 、 SHIFT を 押 し な が ら   *
(BEATMATCH GUIDE ボタンの横) を押して、このデッキで再
生中のトラックのビートグリッドを変更します。ビートグリッド
編集モードを終了するには、[Edit Grid] (グリッドを編集) をク
リックします。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。
                    34
BEATMATCH GUIDE :ライトガイドを有効または無効にしてテ
ンポを調整し、2 つのトラックのビートグリッドを揃えます。デ
ッキごとに 4 つの赤い矢印があります。




DJUCED® では、片方のデッキをマスター同期 (Master
Sync) デッキ、もう片方をスレーブデッキとして定義してい
ます。スレーブデッキはマスター同期デッキのテンポに従う
ため、赤い矢印はスレーブデッキでのみ点灯します。
Serato DJ Lite はマスター同期を定義しません。両方のデ
ッキで赤い矢印が点灯します。




                35
− TEMPO ビジュアルガイド: テンポフェーダーの右側にあ
 る 2 つの赤い矢印のうち、1 つが点灯している場合が
 あります。これは、このデッキで再生しているトラックの
 テンポ (＝ 1 分間の拍数) が、もう片方のデッキのテン
 ポと異なっていることを意味します。
 矢印は、再生中のトラックのテンポをもう一方のデッキ
 のテンポに合わせるために、テンポフェーダーを動かす
 必要がある方向を示しています。
     o 上矢印が点灯: テンポフェーダーを上に動かし
      ます。これによりテンポが遅くなります。
     o 下矢印が点灯: テンポフェーダーを下に動かし
      ます。これによりテンポが速くなります。
     o 矢印が点灯していない: デッキのテンポはマス
      ター同期デッキのテンポと同一になります。




              36
− BEAT ALIGN ビジュアルガイド： 電動プラッターの下に
 ある 2 つの赤い矢印のうち 1 つが点灯することがあり
 ます。これは、このデッキで再生中のトラックのビートが、
 もう片方のデッキのビートと合っていないことを意味しま
 す。
 矢印は、再生中のトラックのビートをもう一方のデッキ
 のビートに合わせるために、電動プラッターを回す必要
 がある方向を示しています。
      o 左矢印が点灯: 電動プラッターを時計回りに
       回します。これにより、再生スピードが速くなり
       ます。
      o 右矢印が点灯: 電動プラッターを反時計回り
       に回します。これにより、再生スピードが遅くな
       ります。
      o 矢印が点灯していない: デッキのビートはもう
       片方のデッキのビートに合わせて調整されま
       す。




              37
 9. ミキシングセクション




GAIN つまみ*: ゲイン (ボリュームフェーダーの前のボリュー
ムレベル) を調整します。


3 バンドイコライザー (EQ)*: EQ の強さをコントロールします。
HIGH、MID、LOW の各バンドにそれぞれつまみが関連付け
られています。


FILTER つまみ*: デュアルフィルター (ハイパス、ローパス)
の周波数を調整します。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。
                 38
 10.   ミキサー




VU メーター：デッキ 1 と 2 のオーディオ信号のレベルを表
示します。


ボリュームフェーダー*: デッキのボリュームを調整します。


クロスフェーダー: 一方のデッキのボリュームを上げ、もう一
方のデッキのボリュームを下げることで、2 つのトラック間の
トランジションを行うことができます。
 − クロスフェーダーを左端まで移動: デッキ 1 のトラックだ
   けが聴こえます。
 − クロスフェーダーを右端まで移動: デッキ 2 のトラックだ
   けが聴こえます。
 − クロスフェーダーが中央: デッキ 1 とデッキ 2 の両方の
   トラックが同時に聞こえます。
              39
カーブスイッチ： クロスフェーダーのカーブを変更できます。
 −     (mix) = 2 つのデッキのプログレッシブなミキシング。
 −     (scratch) = 2 つのデッキの高速なミキシング。
 −     (無効) = クロスフェーダーを無効にします （ボリュ
     ームフェーダーのみを使用してミキシングを行う用）。




Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、クロスフェーダー
の設定を変更できます。[設定]、[Mixer] の順に選択しま
す:
− Power (パワー): スクラッチ用の高速カーブ。
− Linear (リニア)： ミキシング用のプログレッシブカーブ。
− Reverse (リバース): クロスフェーダーの向きを逆にしま
  す。これは「Hamster」モードとしても知られています。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。

                    40
  11.    エフェクト




エフェクトラックを表示するには:
  − DJUCED 内:          をクリックします。
  − Serato DJ Lite 内:       をクリックします。


エフェクトボタン            /   /   *：エフェクトラックからエフェクト
を選択できます。ボタンが点灯します。
エフェクトを有効にするには、パフォーマンスレバーを使います。
ボタン      /   /   に関連付けされたエフェクトを変更するに
は、エフェクトラックで新しいエフェクトを選択します。Serato
DJ Lite および Serato DJ Pro では、SHIFT キーと     、
または      を押してエフェクトのリストを表示し、SHIFT キーと
 、      または      を再度押してリスト内を移動し、新しいエフ
ェクトを選択することもできます。




Serato DJ Lite 内:
− 複数のエフェクトを同時に組み合わせることも可能です。
− 左側の 3 つのエフェクト             / /   は左側のデッキ (デ
                            41
 ッキ 1) に適用され、右側の 3 つのエフェクト     /   /
 は右側のデッキ (デッキ 2) に適用されます。
Serato DJ Pro では、3 つのエフェクトボタンの 2 つのグル
ープが、2 つのバーチャルデッキに対して適用されます。



パフォーマンスレバー*: ボタン 、      または   にロードされ
たエフェクトを有効にします。ポジションは 3 つあります:
 − HOLD：レバーがこの位置にある間、エフェクトを継続的
     に有効になります。
 − ON：レバーがこの位置にある間、エフェクトは一時的に
     有効になります。
 − 中央ポジション: エフェクト無効。


DEPTH つまみ: エフェクトの強さを調整します。


 /    ボタン： 音楽と同期したエフェクトのサイクルの長さ
を調整します。




DJUCED にはこの機能は含まれていません。




*機能はデッキ 1 とデッキ 2 で同じです。
                  42
コネクター




 12.   スピーカー用 Master 出力 (出力 1～2)
 13.   バランスマイク入力
 14.   USB-B 2.0 ポート
 15.   POWER ボタン
 16.   電源アダプター用コネクター
 17.   ヘッドフォン出力 (出力 3-4)


スピーカー用 Master 出力 (出力 1～2): アクティブスピーカ
ーを接続できます。
フォーマット: アンバランス RCA (Cinch) 2 系統、バランスド
XLR 2 系統。


バランスマイク入力： バランスまたはアンバランスマイクを接
続できます。
フォーマット: 6.35mm ジャック
                       43
USB-B 2.0 ポート: コントローラーをコンピュータに接続でき
ます。


POWER ボタン： DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーの電源
をオン/オフにできます。


電源アダプター用コネクター： 電源ケーブルを接続し、アダ
プターを使用して DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーをコン
セントに差し込むことができます。


ヘッドフォン出力 (出力 3～4): ヘッドフォンを接続して、トラッ
クをモニタリングすることができます。
フ ォ ー マ ッ ト : 3.5mm ス テ レ オ ミ ニ ジ ャ ッ ク コ ネ ク タ ー と
6.35mm ステレオジャックコネクター。




                        44
4 本の伸縮可能な脚を伸ばして DJControl Inpulse T7 コ
ントローラーを持ち上げ、その下にケーブルを通します。




− DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーを運搬する前に脚
 を格納してください。
− DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーを使用しないとき
 は、脚を格納してください。
− 脚を伸ばした状態で、DJControl Inpulse T7 コントロー
 ラーを 5kg / 50 N 以上の力で押し下げないでください。




                  45
4.   設置

接続

1. 電源アダプターを DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラー
 に接続します。
2. 電源ケーブルを電源アダプターに接続し、コンセントに
 差し込みます。
3. USB ケーブルを DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーと
 コンピュータに接続します。
4. DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーの POWER ボタン
 を押します。すると、ボタンが押し込まれます。
5. スピーカーの電源がオフになっているか、外部アンプに接
 続されている場合はアンプの電源がオフになっていること
 を確 認 し てく だ さ い 。 ア ク テ ィ ブ スピ ーカ ー の 入 力 を
 DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーのスピーカー用 Master
 出力に接続します (RCA 2 系統または XLR 2 系統)。
6. DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーの MASTER ボリュ
 ームを最小レベルに調整してから、スピーカーの電源を
 入れます。
7. ヘッドフォンを首にかけ (耳には付けない状態で)、
 3.5mm ミニジャックコネクターまたは 6.35mm ジャックコ
 ネクターに接続します。
8. マイクをマイク入力に接続します (オプション)。



                   46
            電源
− ユーザーズマニュアルに記載されている電源ユニット以
 外は使用しないでください。
− 電源ユニットの定格プレートに記載されているネットワ
 ーク電圧および周波数の電源のみを使用してください。


            47
− 出力ペアを PA システムに接続し、2 つめの出力ペアを
 モニタリングスピーカーに接続するなど、両方の出力フ
 ォーマット (XLR と RCA) を同時に使用することが可能
 です。
− Vegas Mode と 呼 ば れ る LED 点 灯 シ ー ケン スは 、
 DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーをコンピュータに接
 続するたびに起動します。Vegas Mode は 4 段階で行
 わ れ 、 す べ て の LED を 点 灯 さ せ 、 パ ッ ド お よ び
 BROWSER エンコーダーのバックライトリングにさまざま
 な色を表示することができます。




                   48
ソフトウェアのダウンロード

DJUCED

 1. https://www.djuced.com/hercules にアクセスします。
 2. DJUCED® をダウンロードしてインストールします。
 3. 以下にアクセスしてください:
  https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulse
  t7/ (英語)
 4. お使いのコンピュータの OS 用のドライバパックをダウ
  ンロードしてインストールします。
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
   Windows® で DJControl Inpulse T7 を WASAPI モード
   に比べてレイテンシーが低く、より安定している ASIO
   モードで使用するにはドライバをインストールする必要
   があります。
   また、このドライバを使うことで、DJControl Inpulse T7
   コントローラーをテストし、Windows® と macOS® の両方
   でファームウェアのバージョンを確認することもできます。
 5. DJUCED ソフトウェアを起動します。お使いの DJControl
  Inpulse T7 コントローラーが正しく認識され、使用できる状
  態であることを示すウィンドウが表示されます。




                         49
ソフトウェアの初回起動時には、DJUCED® がヘッドフォンと
アクティブスピーカーの接続方法を案内してくれます （外部
アクティブスピーカーがない場合は、コンピュータに内蔵され
ているスピーカーを使用することもできます）。開始する前
に、画面に表示される情報に従って手順を進めてください。



オーディオ設定:
DJUCED® でサウンドカードの設定を変更するには、画面右上の
歯車のアイコンをクリックします。すると設定メニューが開きます。
Audio (オーディオ) タブを選んでサウンドカードを選択し、ヘ
ッドフォンとスピーカーの出力を割り当てます。
Windows® での標準的なセットアップは以下の通りです:
 − Audio device ( オ ー デ ィ オ デ バ イ ス ): DJControl
  Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
 − Output (出力):
        o Master: Outputs 1&2
        o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                           50
macOS® での標準的なセットアップは以下の通りです:
 − Audio device ( オ ー デ ィ オ デ バ イ ス ): DJControl
  Inpulse T7
 − Output (出力):
        o Master: Outputs 1&2
        o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                       51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. 以 下 に ア ク セ ス し て く だ さ い :
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads
 2. Serato DJ Lite をダウンロードしてインストールします。
 3. 以下にアクセスしてください:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulse
   t7/ (英語).
 4. お使いのコンピュータの OS 用のドライバパックをダウ
   ンロードしてインストールします。
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows® で DJControl Inpulse T7 を WASAPI モード
    に比べてレイテンシーが低く、より安定している ASIO
    モードで使用するにはドライバをインストールする必要
    があります。
    また、このドライバを使うことで、DJControl Inpulse T7
    コントローラーをテストし、Windows® と macOS® の両方
    でファームウェアのバージョンを確認することもできま
    す。




                          52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 には Serato DJ Lite のラ
イセンスが含まれていますが、Serato DJ Pro のライセン
スは含まれていません。
Serato DJ Lite は、一切の時間制限なしで使用できます。
Serato DJ Lite でなく Serato DJ Pro をインストールした
場合、Serato DJ Pro は 試用期間中のみ DJControl
Inpulse T7 でお使いいただけます。試用期間の終了後も
Serato DJ Pro をご使用になりたい場合は、Serato DJ
Pro のライセンスをご購入いただく必要があります。




                       53
 5.     ミックスにパンチを加える

ミックスにパンチを加える方法はいろいろあります。



モードおよびパッド

パッド

DJUCED の場合、パッド 1～8 は現在有効なモードに対応
した動作を行います。


Serato DJ Lite では、パッド 1～4 は現在有効になっている
モードに対応した動作を行います。パッド 5～8 の動作は以
下の通りです:
 − パッド 5: Reverse (逆再生)
 − パッド 6: 巻き戻し
 − パッド 7: 早送り
 − パッド 8: Censor。パッドを押している間、トラックを逆再
      生することができます。 パッドを離すと、通常再生した場
      合の位置から再生が再開されます。 これはたとえば、曲
      の中で露骨な表現を隠したい場合などに使用できます。




                    54
パッドで有効なモードは、使用するソフトウェアによって異な
ります:



モード    DJUCED       Serato DJ Lite   Serato DJ Pro**

  1     Hot Cue         Hot Cue          Hot Cue

  2    Loop Roll       Auto Loop        Auto Loop

  3      Stems           Stems            Stems

  4     Sampler         Sampler           Sampler

  5    TonePlay            –             Pitch Play

  6      PadFX             –             Loop Roll

  7    Slicer Loop    Manual Loop      Manual Loop

  8    BeatJump      Scratch Banks     Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro のライセンスは含まれていません。




                          55
Hot Cue モード

Hot Cue ポイントは、トラック内に配置することで、後でこの
ポイントを簡単に見つけ、そこに瞬時に戻れるようにするマ
ーカー(しおりのようなもの) です。


DJUCED では、トラックごとに 8 つの Hot Cue ポイントを設
定できます。


Serato DJ Lite では、トラックごとに 4 つの Hot Cue ポイント
を設定できます。
Serato DJ Pro では、トラックごとに 8 つの Hot Cue ポイント
を設定できます。


 1. Hot Cue モードにアクセスするには、HOT CUE 1 を押し
   ます。HOT CUE 1 ボタンのランプが点灯したままになり
   ます。
 2. Hot Cue ポイントを設定するには、パッドを押します。
 3. トラックを Hot Cue ポイントから再生するには対応する
   パッドを押します。
 4. Hot Cue ポイントを削除するには、SHIFT とパッドを同
   時に押します。




                    56
Loop モード




DJUCED では、このモードは Loop Roll モードに該当しま
す。ループを適用すると、デッキの再生ヘッドがバックグラ
ウンドで進み続けます。ループを無効にすると、再生を続
けていた場合のトラックの位置から再生が再開されます。
Serato DJ Lite および Serato DJ Pro では、このモードは
Auto Loop モードに相当します。



ループとは、トラックの一部を繰り返し再生することです。


  1. Loop モードにアクセスするには、LOOP 2 を押します。
    LOOP 2 ボタンのランプは点灯したままになります。


DJUCED 内:
  2. ループを適用するにはパッドを長押しします。
  3. ループを無効にするには、対応するパッドを離します。


Serato DJ Lite 内:
  2. ループを適用するにはパッドを押します。
  3. ループを無効にするには、対応するパッドを押します。




                    57
ループ長さ:

デッキ 1 / デッキ 2   DJUCED    Serato DJ Lite

   パッド 1        1/16 ビート      1 ビート
   パッド 2         ⅛ ビート        2 ビート
   パッド 3         ¼ ビート        4 ビート
   パッド 4         ½ ビート        8 ビート
   パッド 5         1 ビート           -
   パッド 6         2 ビート           -
   パッド 7         4 ビート           -
   パッド 8         8 ビート           -




                 58
Stems モード

Stems モードでは、トラックを「Stems」と呼ばれる 4 つの異な
るパート (ボーカルや楽器) に分離することができます。


  1. Stems モードにアクセスするには STEMS 3 を押します。
    STEMS 3 ボタンのランプは点灯し続けます。
  2. パッド 1～4 は、それぞれ Stem に関連付けられていま
    す。Stem の再生を停止するには、対応するパッドを押
    します。停止するとパッドのライトが消灯します。
  3. Stem の再生を再開するには、対応するパッドを押して
    ください。パッドが点灯します。


Stems:

    デッキ 1 / デッキ 2         Stem

         パッド 1           ボーカル
         パッド 2           メロディー
         パッド 3           ベース
         パッド 4            ドラム




                    59
初めてトラックで Stems を有効にした場合、分離は必ずし
も即座に行われません。DJ ソフトウェアがトラックを分析
し、各パート (ボーカル、メロディ、ベース、ドラム) を生成
するまでに、しばらく時間がかかる場合があるためです。


Stems を分離する瞬間と、再生するまでの間に十分な時
間を置くことを忘れないでください。Stems の各パートが生
成されると、Stems の再生は瞬時に行われます。


Stems モードを使用するには、高性能なコンピュータが必
要です。




              60
Sampler モード

サンプルは、現在再生されているトラック上で再生される短
いサウンドで、1 回だけ再生 (Jingle) することも、繰り返し再
生 (Loop) することもできます。


DJUCED では、パッド 1～8 を使ってマルチレイヤーサンプ
ラーの最初の 2 つのラインに表示されている 8 つのサンプ
ルを再生できます。
マルチレイヤーサンプラーを表示するには、DJUCED の
画面左上のドロップダウンメニューで 2Decks Horizontal + 2
Samplers を選択します。


Serato DJ Lite では、パッド 1～4 でサンプルを再生できま
す。
サンプルパネルを表示するには、Serato DJ Lite 内で     を
クリックします。


 1. Sampler モードにアクセスするには、SAMPLER 4 を押し
     ます。 SAMPLER 4 ボタンのランプは点灯したままです。
 2. サンプルを再生するにはパッドを押します。
 3. サンプルの再生を停止するには、SHIFT と対応するパ
     ッドを同時に押します。




                   61
モード 5




Serato DJ Lite ではモード 5 (TonePlay) は利用できませ
ん。
Serato DJ Pro には、Pitch'n Time プラグインと連携して、
TonePlay モードと同じ原理で動作する Pitch Play モード
が用意されています。



DJUCED では、モード 5 は TonePlay モードに対応します。
このモードでは、Hot Cue ポイントを異なるトーンで再生でき
ます。


 1. Hot Cue モードを有効にしてから、Hot Cue ポイントを選
   択します。
 2. モード 5 にアクセスするには、SHIFT と HOT CUE 1 を
   同時に押します。HOT CUE 1 ボタンが点滅します。
 3. Hot Cue ポイントのトーンを変更するには、パッド 2～8
   のいずれかを押します。
 4. 元のトーンに戻るには、パッド 1 を押します。




                   62
トーンを変更する:

  デッキ 1 / デッキ 2         トーン

     パッド 1             元のトーン
     パッド 2              +1
     パッド 3              +2
     パッド 4              +3
     パッド 5              -1
     パッド 6              -2
     パッド 7              -3
     パッド 8              -4




                  63
モード 6




Serato DJ Lite ではモード 6 は利用できません。



DJUCED では、モード 6 が PadFX モードに相当します。こ
のモードでは、パッドを使ってエフェクトラックのエフェクトをコ
ントロールできます。
エフェクトは、トラックのサウンドを変更するためにトラックに
適用されるフィルターまたはフィルターの組み合わせです (エ
コー、リバーブなど)。


エフェクトラックを表示するには        をクリックします。


 1. モード 6 にアクセスするには、SHIFT と LOOP 2 を同時
  に押します。LOOP 2 ボタンが点滅します。
 2. アクションを実行するにはパッドを押します。
 3. エフェクトを無効にするには、対応するパッド (パッド 1
  ～3) を押します。




                  64
可能なアクション:

デッキ 1 / デッ            エフェクト

  パッド 1          ラックのエフェクト 1
  パッド 2          ラックのエフェクト 2
  パッド 3          ラックのエフェクト 3
  パッド 4      エフェクトラックを表示/非表示にします
  パッド 5       ラックのエフェクト 1 を変更します
  パッド 6       ラックのエフェクト 2 を変更します
  パッド 7       ラックのエフェクト 3 を変更します
  パッド 8                 -




                 65
モード 7




DJUCED では、モード 7 は Slicer Loop モードに相当しま
す。Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、モード 7 は
Manual Loop モードに対応しています。



DJUCED では、モード 7 が Slicer Loop モードに相当します。
このモードでは、アクティブなループを 8 つのセクションにス
ライスすることができます。


 1. モード 7 (Slicer Loop) にアクセスするには、SHIFT と
   STEMS 3 を同時に押します。すると、STEMS 3 ボタン
   が点滅します。
 2. あるセクションをループ再生するには、パッドを長押しし
   ます。
 3. セクションの再生を停止するには、該当するパッドから
   指を離します。




                    66
Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、モード 7 が Manual
Loop モードに相当します。このモードでは、手動でループを
有効にできます。


 1. モード 7 (Manual Loop) にアクセスするには、SHIFT と
   STEMS 3 を同時に押します。すると、STEMS 3 ボタン
   が点滅します。
 2. アクションを実行するにはパッドを押します。


可能なアクション:

  デッキ 1/2                  エフェクト

   パッド 1      1 回押す: インポイント (IN) を設定します
              2 回押す: インポイント (IN) を変更します

   パッド 2      1 回押す: インポイント (OUT) を設定します
              2 回押す: インポイント (OUT) を変更します

   パッド 3           ループを有効/無効にします
   パッド 4       再生ヘッドをループの最初に移動し、ル
                   ープを再生します (Reloop)。

AUTOLOOP エ     ループの長さを増やします/減らします。
 ンコーダー




                      67
モード 8




DJUCED では、モード 8 は BeatJump モードに相当しま
す。Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、モード 8 は
Scratch Banks モードに対応しています。



DJUCED では、モード 8 は BeatJump モードに対応します。こ
のモードでは、トラック内を正確にジャンプすることができます。
 1. モード 8 (BeatJump) にアクセスするには、SHIFT      と
   SAMPLER を同時に押します。SAMPLER        ボタンが点
   滅します。
 2. ジャンプを作成するにはパッドを押します。


ジャンプの長さ:

  デッキ 1 / デッキ 2             ジャンプ

        パッド 1              1 ビート戻る
        パッド 2              1 ビート進む
        パッド 3              2 ビート戻る
        パッド 4              2 ビート進む
        パッド 5              4 ビート戻る
        パッド 6              4 ビート進む
        パッド 7              8 ビート戻る
        パッド 8              8 ビート進む
                    68
Serato DJ Lite と Serato DJ Pro では、モード 8 は Scratch
Banks モードに対応しています。 このモードでは、スクラッチ
サンプルをデッキに即座にロードして、現在再生中のトラック
の代わりに電動プラッターをスクラッチし、現在再生中のトラ
ックにすばやく戻ることができます。
スクラッチサンプルパネルを表示するには、Serato DJ Lite
内で     をクリックします。


 1. モード 8 (Scratch Banks) にアクセスするには、SHIFT
     と SAMPLER を同時に押します。SAMPLER            ボタンが
     点滅します。
 2. スクラッチのサンプルを再生するにはパッドを押します。
 3. スクラッチサンプルの再生を停止して、前に再生してい
     たトラックに戻るには、SHIFT キーと対応するパッドを同
     時に押します。


サンプル:

   デッキ 1 / デッキ 2                サンプル

        パッド 1                     Ahh!
        パッド 2                   Hey You!
        パッド 3                    Oww!
        パッド 4                    Yeah!




                       69
スクラッチング

スクラッチとは、電動プラッターを回してトラックからサウンド
エフェクトを作り出すことです。


人差し指を電動プラッターの上に置き、左右に小さくすばやく
動かします。


このスクラッチを何度も繰り返してリズムを作ることができま
す。




− スクラッチやミキシングを行う前に、電動プラッターとヴ
 ァイナルレコードの間にフェルト製スリップマットを敷い
 てください。
− ヴァイナルレコードを電動プラッターに置く際に、力を入
 れて無理に押し付けないでください。ヴァイナルレコード
 の中心部を傷つける恐れがあります。




              70
フィルター

トラックのフィルターを調整することで、特定の周波数を減衰
させることができます。


 − 高周波を減衰させる (ローパスフィルターまたはハイカッ
  トフィルター): フィルターつまみ (FILTER) を左に回しま
  す。
 − 低周波を減衰させる (ハイパスフィルターまたはローカ
  ットフィルター): フィルターつまみ (FILTER) を右に回し
  ます。




                71
 6.   マルチチャンネル サウンドカード

DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーはマルチチャンネルの
サウンドカードを内蔵しており、スピーカーで観客向けにミッ
クスを再生しながら (スピーカーの Master 出力)、次のトラッ
クをヘッドフォンでモニタリングすることができます (ヘッドフォ
ン出力)。また、マイクやラインレベル出力を備えたデバイス
をオーディオソースとして使用することが可能です。




                  72
スピーカー用 Master 出力 (出力 1-2)

アクティブスピーカーは、DJ コントローラーの背面にある 2
つのスピーカー用 Master 出力のいずれかに接続する必要
があります。




出力ペアを PA システムに接続し、2 つめの出力ペアをモ
ニタリングスピーカーに接続するなど、両方の出力フォー
マットを同時に使用することが可能です。



              73
ヘッドフォン出力 (出力 3-4)

ヘッドフォンは、DJ コントローラーの前面にある 2 つのヘッド
フォン出力     のいずれかに接続する必要があります。




デフォルトの設定では、DJ コントローラーが接続されるたび
に、 DJUCED® および Serato DJ Lite を含む市販の DJ ソフ
トウェアで動作できるよう、ヘッドフォン出力は出力 3～4 に
割り当てられます。


ただし、たとえば DJ コントローラーのヘッドフォン出力を使っ
てコンピュータ上で iTunes の音楽を楽しみたい場合などに
は、出力 1～2 をヘッドフォン出力にルーティングする必要が
あります。これを行うには MASTER VU メーターの下に配置
されている      ボタンを押します。
                    74
2 つのヘッドフォンを同時に接続することはお勧めしません
(つまり、1 つを 3.5 mm ミニジャック出力コネクターに、もう
1 つを 6.35 mm ジャック出力コネクターに接続)。2 つのヘ
ッドフォンのインピーダンスが同じでない場合、出力ボリュ
ームが異なってしまうためです。




                75
マイク入力

マイクは、DJ コントローラーの背面にあるマイク入力に接続
する必要があります。なお、マイク入力はバランスです。




             76
バランスまたはアンバランスマイクを接続できます。バラン
スマイクを使用する利点は、ブレスやその他のノイズが少
なく、より優れたサウンドを楽しめることです。バランスマイ
クは、ブリージングノイズを抑え、よりクリアでパワフルな
サウンドを生み出します。バランスマイクがバランスケーブ
ルで接続されていない場合、マイクケーブルを使用すると
マイクの音質が低下します。


              バランスケーブル

      Tip (チップ)

     Ring (リング)

  Sleeve (スリーブ)




            アンバランスケーブル


      Tip (チップ)



  Sleeve (スリーブ)




                  77
  7.     互換性

USB Audio / USB MIDI

この DJ コントローラーはプラグアンドプレイに対応しており、
USB Audio および USB MIDI 規格に準拠しているため、ドラ
イバなしで PC および Mac 上の DJUCED で使用できます。



ASIO および Windows® コントロールパネル

Serato DJ Lite で DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーを使
用するには、ASIO ドライバをインストールする必要がありま
す。ASIO ドライバは以下から入手できます:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/.


DJUCED を使用している場合は、ASIO ドライバをダウンロ
ードして、PC の低レイテンシーを活用することもできます。


ASIO ドライバにはコントロールパネルが付属しており、PC
のタスクバーや             C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\
Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\ ディレクトリからアクセスで
きます。 このパネルでは、バッファサイズやレイテンシーなど、
さまざまな ASIO 設定を調整できます。




                           78
ASIO 設定を調整するには:
 − ASIO バッファサイズを 4 または 8 ms に設定します。
 − ソ フ ト ウ ェ ア ( 例 : DJUCED®) を 起 動 し 、 DJControl
  Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) ドライバを選択します。




ソフトウェアが ASIO ドライバの使用を開始した後は、コント
ロールパネルで ASIO 設定を変更することはできなくなりま
す。これは完全に正常であり、ASIO ドライバが使用中である
ことを示します。




                      79
ソフトウェアを使用して、音声に不具合やアーチファクト (クリ
ック音、ポップ音など) がないか、レイテンシーに問題がない
かなどを注意深く聞いてください。不具合やアーチファクトが
発生した場合は、問題を解決するためにバッファサイズを増
やす必要があります。


ソフトウェアを終了し、ASIO バッファを 1 つの値ずつ調節し
ます:
  − レイテンシを減らすには、バッファサイズを小さくします。
  − オーディオに音の乱れやアーチファクトがある場合は、
      バッファのサイズを大きくしてください。


システムに最適なバッファサイズが見つかるまで、この手順
を繰り返す必要があります。


ドライバは以下の場所から入手できます:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/




                           80
ファームウェアのアップデート

お使いの DJ コントローラーは自動ファームウェアアップデー
ト モードを搭載しています。これには、Hercules ドライバをイ
ンストールし、画面の指示に従う必要があります。ファームウ
ェアのアップデートは自動的に実行されます。


ドライバは以下の場所から入手できます:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/


また、コントロールパネルでは、この情報にアクセスして
ABOUT (バージョン情報) タブでコンピュータにインストール
されているドライバのバージョンを表示することができます。
Hercules のテクニカルサポートに問い合わせる必要がある
場合は、この情報を手元に準備しておいてください。




                           81
コントロールパネルで DJ コントローラーをテ
スト

DJControl Inpulse T7 コントロールパネルの ABOUT (バージ
ョン情報) セクションでは、DJ コントローラーのサウンド、
MIDI コントロール、ライティング、および電動プラッターをテス
トすることができます。


コントロールパネルにアクセスするには、以下のディレクトリ
に    移   動   し   て   く   だ    さ   い   :   C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\



    1. オーディオテスト

(DJ ソフトウェアを使用せずに) DJControl Inpulse T7 コント
ローラーのオーディオインターフェースが音を出力しているか
どうかをテストするには、スピーカーのアイコンをクリックしま
す。テスト中はアイコンが緑色に点灯し、プログラムがスピー
カーとヘッドフォンの Master 出力でサウンドを再生します。




                         82
 2. MIDI コントロールテスト

(DJ ソフトウェアを使用せずに) DJControl Inpulse T7 コント
ローラーの MIDI コントロールが動作しているかどうかをテス
トするには、テストしたいボタンやその他のコントロールを使
ってみてください。DIN コネクターのアイコンが緑色に変われ
ば、MIDI コマンドが受信され、ボタンやその他のコントロール
が正常に動作していることを意味します。




                    83
 3. ライティングテスト

(DJ ソフトウェアを使用せずに) DJControl Inpulse T7 コント
ローラーの LED が動作しているかどうかをテストするには、
電球のアイコンをクリックしてコントローラーの LED を点灯さ
せます。テスト中はアイコンが緑色に点灯し、コントローラー
の LED が点灯します。




また、両デッキの IN ボタンと OUT ボタンを同時に押すこ
とで、DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーの LED をすべ
て点灯させることができます。




                    84
 4. 電動プラッターテスト

(DJ ソフトウェアを使わずに) DJControl Inpulse T7 コントロ
ーラーの電動プラッターが動作しているかどうかをテストする
には、プラッター 1 または 2 のアイコンをクリックします。テス
ト中は、対応するプラッターと DIN コネクターのアイコンが緑
色に点灯し、コントローラー上で電動プラッターが動きます
(回転します)。


電動プラッター No.1 のテスト:




電動プラッター No.2 のテスト:




                    85
 5.   デモモード

このモードは、DJ コントローラーを電源とコンピュータなしで
USB 電源に接続したときに使用でき、特に店内デモなどで
使用されます。この場合、DJ コントローラーは動作しておら
ず、デモモードになっています。 このモード中は、コントロー
ラーのさまざまなライトを点灯させるデモシーケンスが繰り返
されます。




              86
 6.   FAQ

 1.   ヘッドフォンから音が出ない。

お使いの DJ コントローラーは、DJUCED® および Serato DJ
Lite 用に設定済みのマルチチャンネル サウンドカードを内
蔵しているため、ヘッドフォンは必ずコントローラーの前面に
接続してください。
デフォルトの設定では、ソフトウェアの初回起動時に 2 つの
モニタリングボタンが有効になっています。その後、ヘッドフ
ォンで聴きたいデッキを選択するか、あるいは MASTER VU
メーターの下に配置されている         ボタンを使ってミックス
出力を聴くことができます。




                  87
 2. ヘッドフォンの音が歪んでいる、または音
   量が小さすぎる。

お使いのヘッドフォンに TRRS コネクター (ヘッドフォン+マイ
ク) ではなく、TRS コネクター (標準ヘッドフォン) が搭載され
ていることを確認してください。


     Tip (チップ)               Tip (チップ)
    Ring (リング)               Ring (リング)
                             Ring (リング)
 Sleeve (スリーブ)
                             Sleeve (スリーブ)




TRRS コネクターは、DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーと
互換性がありません。




                   88
 3. スピーカーから音が出ない。

お使いの DJ コントローラーは、DJUCED® および Serato DJ
Lite 用に設定済みのマルチチャンネル サウンドカードを内
蔵しているため、スピーカーは必ずコントローラー背面の
RCA または XLR コネクターに接続してください。


DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーのオーディオインターフ
ェースが音を生成しているかどうかを (DJ ソフトウェアを使用
せずに) テストするには、DJ コントローラーのコントロールパ
ネルを表示します。ABOUT (バージョン情報) タブをクリック
し、続いてスピーカーのアイコンをクリックします。サウンド再
生中はアイコンが緑色に変わります。




                  89
4.      ノートパソコンのスピーカーのどちらか
     らも音が出ない。

お使いの DJ コントローラーには、あらかじめ設定済みのマ
ルチチャンネルサウンドカードが搭載されています。ノートパ
ソコンに内蔵されているスピーカーを使用する場合:
 − DJUCED® で設 定にアクセスし、SEND MASTER TO
     COMPUTER SPEAKERS (マスター信号をコンピュータ
     のスピーカーに送る) オプションをオンにします。




 − Serato DJ Lite で設定にアクセスして Audio (オーディ
     オ) タブを開き、Use Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンの
     スピーカーを使用する) オプションにチェックを入れます。




                     90
5.     ヘッドフォンとノートパソコンのスピー
     カーのどちらからも音が出ない。

デフォルトでは、スピーカーの Master 出力とヘッドフォン出
力から音が出ます。したがって、ノートパソコンから音が出な
いのは正常です。


ノートパソコンに内蔵されているスピーカーを使用する場合:
 − DJUCED® で設 定にアクセスし、SEND MASTER TO
     COMPUTER SPEAKERS (マスターをコンピュータのスピ
     ーカーに送る) オプションをオンにします。ヘッドフォンを
     DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーに接続する必要が
     あります。




                    91
 − Serato DJ Lite で設定にアクセスして Audio (オーディ
   オ) タブを開き、Use Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンの
   スピーカーを使用する) オプションにチェックを入れます。
   ヘッドフォンを DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーに接
   続する必要があります。




DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーのオーディオインターフ
ェースが音を生成しているかどうかを (DJ ソフトウェアを使用
せずに) テストするには、DJ コントローラーのコントロールパ
ネルを表示します。ABOUT (バージョン情報) タブをクリック
し、続いてスピーカーのアイコンをクリックします。サウンド再
生中はアイコンが緑色に変わります。




                   92
 6. Windows® で音質の問題が発生している。

再生中のトラックの音量が小さすぎる

DJ ソフトウェアのマスターボリュームは、DJ コントローラー
のボリュームコントロールとは独立しています。そのため、DJ
ソフトウェアのマスターボリュームが小さいと、Master 出力の
ボリュームも常に低くなります。


DJ ソフトウェアのボリュームを確認し、必要に応じて音量を
上げてください。


 − DJUCED では、ウィンドウ右上にのバーにあるボリュ
  ームボタンを使います。




 − Serato DJ Lite では、ウィンドウ右上にのバーにあるボ
  リュームボタンを使います。




                93
ヘッドフォンの音量が小さすぎる

Serato DJ Lite で設定にアクセスして Audio (オーディオ) タ
ブを開き、Use Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンのスピーカー
を使用する) オプションのチェックを外します (＝選択を解除)。




                   94
 Use Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンのスピーカーを使用
 する) オプションにチェックを入れたままにする (＝選択状
 態にする) 必要がある場合は、内蔵サウンドカードを「コン
 ピュータのスピーカー」に設定してください。
 1. Serato DJ Lite ソフトウェアを終了します。
 2. Windows の設定にアクセスし、System (システム) →
   Sound (サウンド) の順に選択します。
 3. Output (出力) で、コンピュータの内蔵サウンドカードを
   選択します。お使いの DJ コントローラーを出力先として
   設定しないでください。




Windows® が DJ コントローラーを Windows® サウンドカードと
して設定している可能性があります。この設定のままにした
場合、Use Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンのスピーカーを
使用する) 設定で Master 出力を DJ コントローラーの 4 チ
ャンネル出力 (Master + ヘッドフォン) で再生することができ
ます。




                   95
音がクリアではありません

DJUCED® 内:
ASIO オーディオデバイスの使用をお勧めします。WASAPI
デバイスでも音質は良好ですが、レイテンシーが長くなり、音
がクリアになくなる場合があるためです。


設定にアクセスし、Audio (オーディオ) タブをクリックして、
Audio device (オーディオデバイス) として DJControl Inpulse
T7 ASIO (ASIO) を選択します。




Serato DJ Lite 内:
設定にアクセスして Audio (オーディオ) タブを開き、Use
Laptop Speakers (ノートパソコンのスピーカーを使用する) オ
プションのチェックを外します (＝選択を解除)。




                     96
 7.     マルチメディアスピーカーを
      DJControl Inpulse T7 に接続できません。

スピーカーのコネクターと DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラ
ーのコネクターが異なる場合、デュアル RCA → 3.5 mm ミニ
ジャックアダプター (付属していません) を使用してマルチメ
ディアスピーカーを接続、あるいは デュアル XLR → 6.35
mm ジャックアダプター (付属していません) を使用して PA
スピーカーを接続できます (あるいはお使いのスピーカーに
対応したその他のアダプター)。
また、MASTER VU メーターの下に配置されている           ボ
タンを押すことで、スピーカーをヘッドフォン出力にスピーカ
ーを接続して出力 1～2 を出力 3～4 にルーティングすること
もできます。



 8. DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーは、
      iPad または iPhone と互換性があります
      か?

いいえ、DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーは iPad や
iPhone と互換性はありません。PC または Mac でのみ動作
します。




                   97
 9. DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラー を
   USB-C ポートや Thunderbolt 3 ポートに
   接続するにはどうすればいいですか？

DJControl Inpulse T7 コントローラーは、3 種類の方法で
USB-C ポートまたは Thunderbolt 3 ポートに接続できます：
 − DJ コントローラーとコンピュータの間にアダプター （オ
   ス USB-C （または Thunderbolt 3）→メス USB-A） を使
   用することで、コンピュータと DJ コントローラーに接続
   することができます。安価なアダプターの中には、電源
   が十分に供給されないものもありますのでご注意くださ
   い。
 − コンピュータと DJ コントローラーの間に USB-C または
   Thunderbolt 3 ドックを使用することで接続できます。
   USB-C または Thunderbolt 3 ポート経由でのみ電源を
   供給するドックでは、十分な電力が得られない場合があ
   るため、ドック専用の電源があることを確認してください。
 − 付属の USB ケーブルを USB-C または Thunderbolt 3
   → USB-B 2.0 ケーブルに交換することで接続できます。




                    98
    テクニカルサポート
https://support.hercules.com




            99
商標
Intel® および Intel Core™ は Intel Corporation の商標または登録商標です。
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 は、米国およびその他の国における Microsoft
Corporation の登録商標です。
Mac® および macOS® は、米国およびその他の国における Apple Inc. の登
録商標です。
Serato DJ、Serato DJ Lite および Serato DJ Pro は Serato Audio Research
Limited の登録商標です。
DJUCED ブランドおよび DJUCED のグラフィック要素に関連する権利は
Guillemot Corporation に帰属します。
ASIO は Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH の商標です。
その他のすべての商標および商号は、本書に記載されており、それぞれの
所有者に帰属します。本書に含まれるイラストに法的拘束力はありません。
本書に含まれる内容、設計および仕様は通告なしに変更される場合があり、
また、各国で異なる場合があります。




                               100
著作権
このマニュアルのいかなる部分も、復元システムへのコピー、配信、転送、転
写、 保存、その他の人間またはコンピュータの言語への翻訳を行うことは禁
止します。 これは、電子的、機械的、電磁的、手動的その他のいかなる方法
においても、 Guillemot Corporation S.A. の書面による許可なく行うことはで
きません。




                       101
DJUCED® および Serato DJ Lite エンド
ユーザーライセンス契約
DJUCED® と Serato DJ Lite のインストール時には、ライセンス契約条件をし
っかりとお読みください。




                      102
用户手册
                                目录


1.   包装清单 ......................................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   技术规格 ....................................................... 10

3.   特性 .............................................................. 13

     概览 ...................................................................13

     转盘 ...................................................................14

     混音 ...................................................................32

     连接器 ...............................................................43

4.   安装 .............................................................. 46

     连接 ...................................................................46

     下载软件 ...........................................................49

5.   为您的混音增添光彩 ..................................... 54

     模式和打击垫 ....................................................54

     搓碟 ...................................................................70

     滤波器 ...............................................................71
6.   多声道声卡 ................................................... 72

     Master 输出（输出 1-2，用于连接音箱） .....73

     耳机输出（输出 3-4）......................................74

     麦克风输入........................................................76

7.   兼容性 ........................................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO 和 Windows® 控制面板 .........................78

     固件更新 ...........................................................81

     在控制面板中测试 DJ 打碟机 ..........................82

8.   演示模式 ....................................................... 86

9.   常见问题解答 ................................................ 87
Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）DJControl Inpulse T7 是一款功能齐
全的打碟机，其配备两个电动缓动盘，提供视频教程并集
成 DJUCED 和 Serato DJ Lite 软件，旨在帮助您精通黑
胶唱机的艺术。




Hercules（嗨   酷   乐）DJControl   Inpulse T7   包含
Serato DJ Lite 许可证，但不包含 Serato DJ Pro 许可
证。
用户可以无时间限制地使用 Serato DJ Lite。
如果您安装的是 Serato DJ Pro，而不是Serato DJ
Lite，则 Serato DJ Pro 可在其试用期内搭配 DJControl
Inpulse T7 运行。在试用期结束后，如果您希望继续使
用 Serato DJ Pro，则必须购买 Serato DJ Pro 许可
证。



                     4
提供各种视频教程，帮助您学习如何使用              Hercules
（嗨 酷 乐）DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机进行混音：
 − Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）DJ Academy：
     o 在 DJUCED 中，单击    图标。
     o 在 DJUCED 网站中。
 − Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）Audio YouTube 频道。
 − The DJ Coach，包含由 DJ HAPA 在 Serato DJ
   Lite 上提供的课程。




                  5
 1.   包装清单

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）DJControl Inpulse T7
 − 2 张黑胶唱片（7 英寸 / 17.8 厘米）
 − 2 个毛毡滑垫
 − 编织 USB 电缆
 − 可拆卸式电源线
 − 电源适配器
 − 使用说明
 − 保修信息卡




                     6
您可以撕掉   Hercules（嗨   酷   乐）DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟机上覆盖音量计的保护膜。也可以保留
该保护膜，只要其不影响您使用音量计。




                7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
− Hercules（嗨    酷   乐）DJControl     Inpulse   T7
  Premium Edition
− 2 张黑胶唱片（7 英寸 / 17.8 厘米）
− 2 个毛毡滑垫
− 2 个薄毛毡滑垫
− 编织 USB 电缆
− 可拆卸式电源线
− 电源适配器
− 手提包
− 使用说明
− 保修信息卡




您可以撕掉       Hercules（嗨    酷       乐）DJControl
Inpulse T7 Premium Edition 打碟机上覆盖音量计的保
护膜。也可以保留该保护膜，只要其不影响您使用音量
计。




                     9
 2.   技术规格

系统要求：
 − DJUCED：
   https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
 − Serato DJ Lite：
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
   uirements#system-requirements


音频输出：
         o 解析度 = 24 位
         o 采样频率 = 44.1 kHz


Master 输出（输出 1-2，用于连接音箱），连接方式：
 − 2 个 RCA 接头：
         o 最大输出功率 = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
 − 2 个 XLR 接头（平衡式）：
         o 最大输出功率 = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


通过一个 3.5 mm 立体声迷你插孔接头和一个 6.35 mm
立体声插孔接头连接耳机输出（输出 3-4）：
         o 最大输出功率 = 5 dBU（32 Ω，1 kHz 条件
           下）


麦克风输入，通过一个 6.35 mm 插孔接头（平衡式）连接


                       10
           电源
− 仅使用用户手册中标示的电源。
− 仅在电源铭牌上标明的网络电压和频率下使用电源。




            11
           有关电源的信息
 已发布信息                 值               单位
制造商名称或商标        GUILLEMOT
             CORPORATION S.A.
  企业编号
           414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
   地址
           2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                56910 Carentoir
                      法国
   型号           A481-1852590D
  输入电压            100 – 240             V
输入交流电频率              50 - 60           Hz
  输出电压                18.5             V DC
  输出电流                2.6               A
  输出功率                47.9              W
平均工作效率                87.8              %
低负载时的效率               87.8              %
  (10%)
  空载功耗                0.10              W




                12
3.     特性

概览




1. 电动缓动盘
2. 走带按钮（Play、Cue、Sync、Shift）
3. 循环控件 (Loop)
4. 曲目选择控件（Browser、Load、Assist./Prep.）
5. 速度推子 (Pitch fader)
6. 打击垫和模式
7. 播放模式
8. 监听、音量（Master、耳机和麦克风）和
     Beatmatch Guide
9. 混音区域（Gain、EQ、Filter）
10. 混音器（交叉推子、音量推子）
11. 音效




                       13
转盘

 1. 电动缓动盘




毛毡滑垫：铺在电动缓动盘和黑胶唱片之间。它可以保护
黑胶唱片，防止其受到缓动盘摩擦的影响，同时减轻了播
放唱片时的振动。




您必须始终确保在安装黑胶唱片之前先在电动缓动盘上
铺上毛毡滑垫。




            14
黑胶唱片：可用于搓碟、加快或减慢播放速度以及在曲目
内部移动。
黑胶唱片标签上的直线是供混音和搓碟时使用的参考点
（即标记）。


执行的操作取决于以下两个条件：
 − 曲目处于播放状态还是暂停状态；
 − 您触摸黑胶唱片的位置（顶部或圆环）。



            顶部




  圆环




            15
使用 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 时如何操作黑胶唱
片：


     播放/暂停       电动缓动盘         SHIFT 按钮

      播放           顶部              -

                   搓碟

      播放         顶部/圆环          按住不放

             在曲目内部快速移动

      播放           圆环              -

             加快或减慢播放速度

      暂停         顶部/圆环             -

             在曲目内部缓慢移动

      暂停         顶部/圆环          按住不放

             在曲目内部快速移动




                    16
使用 DJUCED 对黑胶唱片执行的操作：



  播放/暂停     电动缓动盘        SHIFT 按钮

    播放        顶部            -

              搓碟

    播放       顶部/圆环       按住不放

          在曲目内部快速移动

    播放        圆环            -

          加快或减慢播放速度

    暂停        圆环            -

          在曲目内部缓慢移动




              17
电动缓动盘：驱动黑胶唱片，控制曲目的播放并根据速度
推子设置的速度控制曲目速度。


若已启用 Beatmatch Guide 功能，则 BEAT ALIGN 视觉
指引会指示为了对齐两首曲目的节拍网格线，您需要向哪
个方向转动电动缓动盘圆环（即缓动盘边缘）。当两个红
色箭头熄灭时，节拍网格线即处于对齐状态。


有关   Beatmatch   Guide     功能的详细信息，请阅读
Beatmatch Guide 部分。




无法禁用缓动盘的电动功能。




− 当电动缓动盘转动时，请勿用手长时间阻止缓动盘转
  动，以免损害传动系统。
− 将黑胶唱片放在电动缓动盘上时，请勿用强力。否
  则，有可能会损坏黑胶唱片的中心。




                      18
 2. 走带按钮




SHIFT：组合控制。例如：
 − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK)：锁定曲目的音调。
 − SHIFT + IN：在 DJUCED® 中，可将当前活动循环的
  长度减半。


SYNC：启用或禁用自动同步两首曲目的            BPM（每分钟
节拍数）值。
 − SHIFT + SYNC：
    o 在    DJUCED        中：将该转盘设置为主同步
     (Master Sync) 转盘。
    o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：禁用该转盘的同步。




                     19
CUE：在曲目中插入一个记忆点以指定立即跳转到或将转
盘播放指针移动至记忆点的位置。
 − 曲目已暂停：在曲目暂停的位置插入一个记忆点。
 − 曲目正在播放：停止播放曲目并将转盘播放指针移动
  到记忆点。
    o 在 DJUCED 中，若未定义记忆点，按 CUE 可
     停止播放并在播放指针所在的位置放置一个记忆
     点。
    o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，若未定义记忆点，按
     CUE   可停止播放并在曲目的开头放置一个记忆
     点。
 − CUE + PLAY：将播放指针移动到记忆点并从该点处
  播放曲目。
 − SHIFT + CUE：
   o 在 DJUCED 中：将播放指针移动到曲目开头处
     并停止播放。
   o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：将播放指针移动到曲目开
     头处并开始播放。


播放/暂停：播放或暂停曲目。
 − SHIFT + PLAY：在 Serato DJ Lite 中，将播放指针
  移动到记忆点并从该标记处播放曲目。




                  20
 3. 循环控件




AUTOLOOP 编码器：
 − 按下编码器：启用或禁用循环播放。
 − 转动编码器：调节循环的长度。


IN/OUT：通过选择切入点 (IN) 和退出点 (OUT) 启用循
环。
当循环处于活动状态（即启用）时：
 − 按住   IN（按钮闪烁）的同时转动电动缓动盘，可移
     动循环的起点。
 − 按住   OUT（按钮闪烁）的同时转动电动缓动盘，可
     移动循环的终点。
要退出循环，请按 AUTOLOOP 编码器。
在 DJUCED® 中：
 − SHIFT + IN：可将当前活动循环的长度减半。
 − SHIFT + OUT：可将当前活动循环的长度加倍。
 − 长按 IN：启用四节拍循环。




                21
 4. 曲目选择控件




BROWSER   编码器*：通过将编码器向左（上）或向右
（下）旋转浏览您的音乐库和曲目列表。
按下此编码器，以选择文件夹并将所选的曲目加载到目的
转盘上。


发光圆环：
 − 在 DJUCED 中，表示主曲目的活力水平，而这与其
  速度密切相关。
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，表示韵律。灯光会随曲目的节
  拍而闪烁：
       o 红色：指示第一个节拍。
       o 蓝色：指示接下来的三个节拍。




                22
ASSIST./PREP.*：
 − 在 DJUCED 中，显示针对您的混音建议最佳待播曲
   目的面板。
   要滚动浏览建议的曲目列表，请转动 BROWSER 编
   码器。
   要选择曲目，请按 BROWSER 编码器。必须暂停此
   转盘上已加载的曲目。
   按住 ASSIST./PREP. 按钮的同时旋转编码器即可调
   节建议曲目的活力级别。
 − 在    Serato   DJ   Lite   中，将当前播放曲目添加到
   Prepare（准备）列表。
   SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.：打开 Prepare（准备）面
   板。


BACK*：可用于在 DJUCED 和 Serato DJ Lite 中滚动
浏览树形结构。
 − 在 DJUCED 中，按 SHIFT 和 BACK 以返回音乐库
   栏目。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。
                23
 5. 速度推子




速度推子：通过调整 BPM 数设置曲目的播放速度。
 − 向上推：减慢曲目播放速度。
 − 向下推：加快曲目播放速度。
 − 速度推子位于中部：曲目的原始速度。白色 LED 指
     示灯点亮。


若启用 Beatmatch Guide 功能，TEMPO 视觉指引会指示
您需要向上推还是向下推速度推子，以便减慢或加快曲目
播放速度。当两个红色箭头熄灭时，该转盘上的速度与另
一转盘上的速度相同。


有关    Beatmatch   Guide    功能的详细信息，请阅读
Beatmatch Guide 部分。




                      24
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，若已启用 SYNC
模式，则在按住 SHIFT 的同时移动速度推子可在保持振
幅不变的同时移动速度推子的值。


例如，当推子范围为 ±8%（即振幅为 16%）时，您可以
移动速度推子的值，以覆盖 0%（最大值）到 -16%（最
小值）的范围，而其振幅仍然保持 16% 不变，但中心值
变为 -8%。




                     25
RANGE*：可用于更改速度推子的速度比例。
 − 在       DJUCED   中：± 6 %、± 8 %、± 10 %、
  ± 12 %、± 16 %、± 20 %、± 25 %、± 33 %、
  ± 50 %
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：± 8%、± 16%、± 50%。
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK)：锁定曲目的音调。
要确保音调已锁定，请按 SHIFT。此时 RANGE 按钮将
点亮。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。

                     26
 6. 打击垫和模式




模式按钮：可启用至多八种模式。
要启用某种基本模式，请按 HOT CUE 1、LOOP 2、
STEMS 3 或 SAMPLER 4。
要启用附加模式（MODE 5、MODE 6、MODE 7 和
MODE 8），请同时按下 SHIFT 和 HOT CUE 1、LOOP
2、STEMS 3 或 SAMPLER 4。此时，模式按钮即会闪
烁。
打击垫上启用的模式因所用软件而异。


有关 DJUCED、Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中不
同模式的更多信息，请阅读模式和打击垫部分。


打击垫： 一个打击垫执行一个操作。




                     27
 7. 播放模式




INSTRUMENTAL：可用于仅播放曲目的旋律、低音和鼓
声部分。这是 Stems 模式的快捷方式。
 − 要仅播放曲目的旋律、低音和鼓声部分，请按
  INSTRUMENTAL 按钮。此时，该按钮将会点亮。
 − 要恢复播放曲目的所有部分（人声、旋律、低音和鼓
  声），请再次按 INSTRUMENTAL 按钮。此时，该
  按钮的指示灯将会熄灭。




              28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL：启用 Slip 模式。在 Slip 模
式下，当您应用音效或循环、放置记忆点或者使用电动缓
动盘时，转盘播放指针会在后台继续前进。当您停止应用
音效时，将会从一直正常播放状态下所应达到的位置继续
播放。
要确保启用      Slip      模式，请按    SHIFT。此时
INSTRUMENTAL 按钮将点亮。




Serato DJ Lite 不支持 Slip 模式。
Serato DJ Pro 支持 Slip 模式。




                     29
VOCAL：可用于仅播放曲目的人声部分。这是 Stems 模
式的快捷方式。
 − 要仅播放曲目的人声部分，请按 VOCAL 按钮。此
  时，该按钮将会点亮。
 − 要恢复播放曲目的所有部分（人声、旋律、低音和鼓
  声），请再次按 VOCAL 按钮。此时，该按钮的指示
  灯将会熄灭。


SHIFT + VOCAL：启用量化模式。通过量化，您可以对
节拍网格线上的下一个节拍应用某个操作（播放曲目、放
置记忆点、开始循环……）。
要确保启用量化模式，请按 SHIFT。此时 VOCAL 按钮将
点亮。




Serato DJ Lite 不支持量化模式。
Serato DJ Pro 支持量化模式。




                  30
      (pitch bend -) /   (pitch bend +)：可用于手动将
此转盘上当前播放曲目的节拍网格线与另一转盘上当前播
放曲目的节拍网格线对齐。
    − 按住        不放，以暂时减慢转盘速度。
    − 按住       不放，以暂时加快转盘速度。




在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，通过 SHIFT
+      和 SHIFT +         可调节特定模式下的设置（设
置）。




                         31
混音

 8. 监听、音量和 Beatmatch Guide




MIC 音量：调节麦克风的音量。


MIC 发光圆环：指示音频信号的音量（音量计）。
 − 熄灭：没有音频信号。
 − 绿色：正在播放音频信号。
 − 红色：音频信号达到饱和状态。


MASTER 音量：调节音箱上正在播放的混音的音量。


MASTER 音量计：显示音箱 Master 输出（RCA 或
XLR）的音频信号水平。




                 32
HEADPHONES 音量：
 −      /     ：调节耳机上当前播放的信号，混合 Cue
     输出（监听转盘 1 和 2）和 Mix 输出（Master 输
     出）。
      o 要仅收听监听输出，请按转盘 1 和 2 的监听按
       钮。此时，对应按钮将会点亮。然后，将该旋钮
       设置为 Cue。
      o 要仅收听 Master 输出，请按 Master 监听按
       钮。此时，该按钮将会点亮。然后，将该旋钮设
       置为 Mix，即可调节耳机上正在播放的混音。
 −          ：调节耳机的输出音量。




                   33
监听：选择耳机上播放的音源。
 −     （位于 MASTER 音量计下方）：播放混音声
     音，同时也向听众大声播放。
 −     *（位于 BEATMATCH GUIDE 按钮的两侧）：
     当 Cue/Mix 按钮设置为 Cue 时，播放转盘 1 或转盘
     2 的声音。
在 Serato DJ Lite 中，按 SHIFT 和    *（位于
BEATMATCH GUIDE 按钮的旁边），以修改此转盘上正
在播放的曲目的节拍网格线。要退出节拍网格线模式，请
单击 Edit Grid（编辑节拍网格线）。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。

                  34
BEATMATCH GUIDE：启用或禁用灯光指引，以调整速
度并对齐两首曲目的节拍网格线。每个转盘有四个红色箭
头。




DJUCED® 将其中一个转盘定义为主同步 (Master Sync)
转盘，而将另一个转盘定义为从转盘。红色箭头仅在从
转盘上点亮，因为该转盘跟随主同步转盘的节奏。
Serato DJ Lite 未定义主同步转盘。红色箭头在两个转
盘上都会点亮。




                35
− TEMPO 视觉指引：如果速度推子右侧的两个红色箭
 头之一点亮，这意味着，此转盘上播放的曲目的速度
 （即每分钟节拍数）与另一转盘上的曲目速度不同。
 此箭头指示为了调整正在播放的曲目速度使之与另一
 转盘的曲目速度相同，您需要向哪个方向移动速度推
 子。
      o 顶部箭头点亮：向上移动速度推子。这样会
       减慢速度。
      o 底部箭头点亮：向下移动速度推子。这样会
       加快速度。
      o 箭头未点亮：转盘的速度与主同步转盘的速
       度相同。




               36
− BEAT   ALIGN 视觉指引：如果电动缓动盘下方的两
 个红色箭头之一点亮，这意味着，此转盘上播放的曲
 目的节拍未与另一转盘上的曲目节拍对齐。
 此箭头指示为了使正在播放的曲目的节拍与另一转盘
 的曲目节拍对齐，您需要向哪个方向转动电动缓动
 盘。
         o 左侧箭头点亮：顺时针转动电动缓动盘。这
          样会加快播放速度。
         o 右侧箭头点亮：逆时针转动电动缓动盘。这
          样会减慢播放速度。
         o 箭头未点亮：转盘的节拍与另一转盘的节拍
          已对齐。




                 37
 9. 混音区




GAIN 旋钮*：调节增益（即音频信号进入音量推子之前的
音量）。


3 波段均衡器 (EQ)*：控制 EQ 的强度。每个波段都有一
个相关联的旋钮：HIGH、MID 和 LOW。


FILTER 旋钮*：调节双通滤波器（高通和低通）的频率。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。
               38
 10.   混音器




音量计：显示转盘 1 和 2 的音频信号水平。


音量推子*：调整转盘音量。


交叉推子：可用于通过在增大其中一个转盘的音量的同时
减小另一个转盘的音量来在两首曲目之间进行转调。
 − 交叉推子拨到最左边：您只能收听转盘 1 上的曲目。
 − 交叉推子拨到最右边：您只能收听转盘 2 上的曲目。
 − 交叉推子置于中间时：听众可同时听到转盘 1 和 2
   上播放的曲目。




              39
曲线开关：可用于修改交叉推子曲线。
 −    (mix)：对两个转盘进行渐进式混音。
 −    (scratch)：非常快速地对两个转盘进行混音。
 −    （已禁用）：交叉推子已禁用，以便仅使用音量
     推子进行混音。




在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，您可以修改交
叉推子的设置。依次进入“设置”和 Mixer：
− Power（强力）：快速曲线，用于搓碟。
− Linear（线性）：渐增式曲线，用于混音。
− Reverse（反转）：反转交叉推子的方向，亦称为
 “Hamster”模式。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。
                   40
 11.   音效




要显示音效架，请：
 − 在 DJUCED 中：单击                   。
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：单击                。


音效按钮       /       /       *：可用于从音效架上选择音效。此
时，该按钮将会点亮。
要启用音效，请使用演奏拨片。
要修改与按钮         /       /       相关联的音效，请在音效架中选
择一个新音效。在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，
您也可以按 SHIFT 和                  、    或   ，以显示音效列表，
然后再次按 SHIFT 和                  、    或   ，以滚动浏览列表并
选择新音效。




在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
− 无法同时合并多种音效。
− 左侧的三种音效                  /    /       应用于左转盘（转盘
 1），右侧的三种音效                    /    /    应用于右转盘（转
 盘 2）。
                               41
在 Serato DJ Pro 中，两组音效（每组三种音效）均可
应用于两个虚拟转盘。


演奏拨片*：可用于启用按钮       、   或   上的音效。有
三种不同的位置：
 − HOLD：在拨片处于此位置时，持续启用该音效。
 − ON：在拨片处于此位置时，短暂启用该音效。
 − 中心位置：禁用音效。


DEPTH 旋钮：调节音效的强度。


 /   按钮：调节同步到音乐的音效循环持续时长。




DJUCED 不包含此功能。




*此功能在转盘 1 和 2 上完全相同。

               42
连接器




 12.   Master 输出（输出 1-2，用于连接音箱）
 13.   平衡式麦克风输入
 14.   USB-B 2.0 端口
 15.   POWER 按钮
 16.   电源适配器接头
 17.   耳机输出（输出 3-4）


Master 输出（输出 1-2，用于连接音箱）：可用于连接
有源音箱。
接口形式：2 x 非平衡式 RCA (Cinch) 和 2 x 非平衡式
XLR。


平衡式麦克风输入：可用于连接平衡式或非平衡式麦克
风。
格式：6.35 mm 插孔。

                      43
USB-B 2.0 端口：可用于将打碟机连接到计算机。


电源按钮：可用于打开和关闭 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟
机。


电源适配器接头：可用于连接电源线并使用适配器将
DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机插接到电气插座上。


耳机输出（输出 3-4）：可用于连接耳机，以监听曲目。
接口形式：3.5 mm 立体声迷你插孔接头和 6.35 mm 立体
声插孔输出。




                  44
伸出四个可伸缩式支腿，以升高 DJControl Inpulse T7
打碟机并在其底部布线。




− 在运输 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机之前，请将支腿
 收起来。
− 不使用 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机时，请将支腿收
 起来。
− 当伸出支腿时，请勿在 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机
 上放置超过 5 千克的重物或施加超过 50 牛顿的压
 力。




                  45
4.     安装

连接

1. 将电源适配器连接到 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机。
2. 将电源线连接到电源适配器，并将其插接到电气插座
  上。
3. 将   USB   电缆的两端分别连接到           DJControl
  Inpulse T7 打碟机和计算机。
4. 按 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机上的 POWER 按
  钮。此按钮为按下状态。
5. 确保音箱为关机状态，或者，如果音箱连接到外部功
  放，确保该功放为关机状态。将有源音箱的输入连接
  到 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机上用于连接音箱的
  Master 输出（2 x RCA 或 2 x XLR）。
6. 在 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机上，将 MASTER 音
 量调节至最低水平，然后关闭音箱。
7. 将耳机挂在脖子上（而不是挂到耳朵上），然后将耳
 机连接到 3.5 mm 迷你插孔接头或 6.35 mm 插孔接
 头。
8. 将麦克风连接到麦克风输入（可选）。




                   46
           电源
− 仅使用用户手册中标示的电源。
− 仅在电源铭牌上标明的网络电压和频率下使用电源。




            47
− 无法同时使用两种输出格式（XLR            和   RCA），例
 如，将一对输出连接到 PA 系统，将另一对输出连接
 到监听音箱。
− 每次将 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机连接到计算机时
 都会启动    LED   指示灯亮起序列（称为           Vegas
 Mode）。Vegas   Mode        有四个阶段，可点亮所有
 LED 并在打击垫和 BROWSER 编码器的背光圆环上
 显示不同的颜色。




                      48
下载软件

DJUCED

 1. 请访问：https://www.djuced.com/hercules。
 2. 下载并安装 DJUCED®。
 3. 请访问：
  https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
  pulset7/.
 4. 下载并安装适合您的计算机操作系统的驱动程序包。
        o macOS®：HDJC Series Mac
        o Windows®：HDJC Series PC
   Windows® 要求您安装驱动程序，方可在 ASIO 模式
   下使用 DJControl Inpulse T7，相对于 WASAPI 模
   式，该模式延迟更低，通常也更稳定。
   通过此驱动程序，您还可以测试                       DJControl
   Inpulse T7 打碟机并在 Windows® 和 macOS® 中验
   证其固件版本。
 5. 启动 DJUCED 软件。此时将显示一个窗口，表明
  DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机已成功通过检测，可开
  始使用。




                      49
第一次运行 DJUCED® 时，该软件会引导您连接耳机和
有源音箱（或者，如果您没有外置有源音箱的话，允许
您使用计算机的内置扬声器）。开始使用之前，请先遵
循屏幕上的信息执行每一步操作。


音频设置：
在 DJUCED® 中，要修改声卡设置，请单击屏幕右上角的
齿轮图标     。此时将会显示“设置”菜单。
选择 Audio（音频）选项卡以选择声卡，并分配耳机和音
箱的输出。


针对 Windows® 的标准设置如下：
 − 音频设备：DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
 − 输出：
        o 主输出：Outputs 1&2
        o 耳机：Outputs 3&4




                    50
针对 macOS® 的标准设置如下：
 − 音频设备：DJControl Inpulse T7
 − 输出：
       o 主输出：Outputs 1&2
       o 耳机：Outputs 3&4




                    51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. 请访问： https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads。
 2. 下载并安装 Serato DJ Lite。
 3. 请访问：
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. 下载并安装适合您的计算机操作系统的驱动程序包。
         o macOS®：HDJC Series Mac
         o Windows®：HDJC Series PC
    Windows® 要求您安装驱动程序，方可在 ASIO 模式
    下使用 DJControl Inpulse T7，相对于 WASAPI 模
    式，该模式延迟更低，通常也更稳定。
    通过此驱动程序，您还可以测试                       DJControl
    Inpulse T7 打碟机并在 Windows® 和 macOS® 中验
    证其固件版本。




                       52
Hercules（嗨   酷    乐）DJControl   Inpulse T7   包含
Serato DJ Lite 许可证，但不包含 Serato DJ Pro 许可
证。
用户可以无时间限制地使用 Serato DJ Lite。
如果您安装的是 Serato DJ Pro，而不是Serato DJ
Lite，则   Serato   DJ    Pro   可在其试用期内搭配
DJControl Inpulse T7 运行。在试用期结束后，如果您
希望继续使用 Serato DJ Pro，则必须购买 Serato DJ
Pro 许可证。




                       53
 5.   为您的混音增添光彩

有几种方式可以为您的混音增添光彩。



模式和打击垫

打击垫

在 DJUCED 中，打击垫 1 至 8 分别执行与当前已启用
模式相对应的各项操作。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，打击垫 1 至 4 分别执行与当前已启
用模式相对应的各项操作。打击垫 5 至 8 分别执行以下
操作：
 − 打击垫 5：Reverse（倒播）
 − 打击垫 6：倒带
 − 打击垫 7：快进
 − 打击垫 8：Censor。通过此操作，您可在按住打击垫
   不放时倒序播放曲目。一旦松开打击垫，即会从一直
   正常播放状态下所应达到的位置继续播放。此操作可
   用于遮挡歌曲中的不雅之词。




                  54
打击垫上启用的模式因所用软件而异。



模式 DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

 1    Hot Cue        Hot Cue         Hot Cue

 2   Loop Roll      Auto Loop       Auto Loop
 3     Stems          Stems           Stems
 4    Sampler         采样器            Sampler

 5   TonePlay           –            Pitch Play
 6     PadFX            –            Loop Roll
 7   Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
 8   BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**未包含 Serato DJ Pro 许可证。




                            55
Hot Cue 模式

Hot    Cue   点是一个可在曲目中设置的标记（类似于书
签），可用于再次在曲目中轻松定位到该时间点并在之后
立即返回原位置。


在 DJUCED 中，每首曲目可以设置八个 Hot Cue 点。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，每首曲目可以设置四个 Hot Cue
点。
在 Serato DJ Pro 中，每首曲目可以设置八个 Hot Cue
点。


 1. 要进入 Hot Cue 模式，请按 HOT CUE 1。HOT
      CUE 1 按钮灯保持常亮。
 2. 要设置 Hot Cue 点，请按打击垫。
 3. 要从 Hot Cue 点开始播放曲目，请按对应的打击
      垫。
 4. 要删除 Hot Cue 点，请同时按下 SHIFT 和打击垫。




                  56
循环模式




在 DJUCED 中，此模式对应于 Loop Roll 模式。当您
应用循环时，转盘播放指针会在后台继续前进。当您禁
用循环时，将会从一直正常播放状态下所应达到的位置
继续播放。
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，此模式对应于
Auto Loop 模式。


循环是指曲目中重复播放的部分。


 1. 要进入 Loop 模式，请按 LOOP 2。LOOP 2 按钮灯
   保持常亮。


在 DJUCED 中：
 2. 要应用循环，请按住某个打击垫不放。
 3. 要禁用循环，请松开对应的打击垫。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
 2. 要应用循环，请按某个打击垫。
 3. 要禁用循环，请按对应的打击垫。




                      57
循环长度：

 转盘 1 / 转盘 2   DJUCED   Serato DJ Lite

   打击垫 1       1/16 节拍       1 节拍
   打击垫 2        ⅛ 节拍         2 节拍
   打击垫 3        ¼ 节拍         4 节拍
   打击垫 4        ½ 节拍         8 节拍
   打击垫 5        1 节拍           -
   打击垫 6        2 节拍           -
   打击垫 7        4 节拍           -
   打击垫 8        8 节拍           -




                58
Stems 模式

Stems 模式可用于将一个音轨分离成四个不同的部分（人
声和乐声），这些部分称为“stems”。


 1. 要进入 Stems 模式，请按 STEMS 3。STEMS 3 按
   钮灯保持常亮。
 2. 打击垫 1 至 4 分别对应一个 stem。要停止播放某个
   stem，请按对应的打击垫。此时，该打击垫的指示
   灯熄灭。
 3. 要恢复播放某个 stem，请按对应的打击垫。此时，
   该打击垫点亮。


Stems：

    转盘 1 / 转盘 2          Stem

         打击垫 1           人声
         打击垫 2           旋律
         打击垫 3           低音
         打击垫 4           鼓声




                  59
在一个音轨中首次启用 stems 时，音轨分离并非总是
立即完成。这可能需要片刻时间，在该过程中，DJ 软
件会分析该音轨并生成不同的部分（人声、旋律、低
音、鼓声）。


请务必在分离 stems 和播放 stems 之间留出足够的时
间。一旦生成     stems   的不同部分，便可立即播放
stems 了。


要使用 Stems 模式，需要使用强大的计算机。




                   60
Sampler 模式

样曲是指叠加到当前播放曲目上播放的一小段声音：可以
是一次性播放 (jingle)，也可以是反复播放（循环）。


在 DJUCED 中，您可使用打击垫 1 至 8 来播放多层采
样器的前两行中所出现的 8 首样曲。
要显示多层采样器，请在 DJUCED 左上角下拉菜单中选
择 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，您可使用打击垫 1 至 4 来播放样
曲。
要显示样曲面板，请在 Serato DJ Lite 中单击            。


 1. 要进入     Sampler   模式，请按         SAMPLER   4。
   SAMPLER 4 按钮灯保持常亮。
 2. 要播放样曲，请按某个打击垫。
 3. 要停止播放样曲，请同时按下 SHIFT 和对应的打击
   垫。




                       61
模式 5




Serato DJ Lite 不支持模式 5 (TonePlay)。
Serato DJ Pro 搭配 Pitch 'n Time 插件，可提供 Pitch
Play 模式，该模式的工作原理与 TonePlay 模式相同。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 5 对应于 TonePlay 模式。在此模
式下，允许以不同音调重放 Hot Cue 点。


 1. 启用 Hot Cue 模式，然后选择 Hot Cue 点。
 2. 要进入模式 5，请同时按下 SHIFT 和 HOT CUE 1。
  此时 HOT CUE 1 按钮将会闪烁。
 3. 要修改 Hot Cue 点的音调，请按打击垫 2 至 8 中之
  一。
 4. 要恢复原始音调，请按打击垫 1。




                     62
修改打击垫的方法：

  转盘 1 / 转盘 2        音调

    打击垫 1            原始音调
    打击垫 2             +1
    打击垫 3             +2
    打击垫 4             +3
    打击垫 5             -1
    打击垫 6             -2
    打击垫 7             -3
    打击垫 8             -4




                63
模式 6




Serato DJ Lite 不支持模式 6。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 6 对应于 PadFX 模式。此模式允
许您使用打击垫控制音效架上的音效。
音效是指有时为了修饰声音而对曲目应用的一种滤波器或
几种滤波器的组合（回声、混响等）。


要显示音效架，请单击        。


 1. 要进入模式 6，请同时按下 SHIFT 和 LOOP 2。此时
  LOOP 2 按钮会闪烁。
 2. 要执行某个操作，请按打击垫。
 3. 要禁用循环，请按对应的打击垫（打击垫 1 至 3）。




                   64
可能的操作：

转盘 1 / 转盘 2         音效

  打击垫 1        音效架上的音效 1
  打击垫 2        音效架上的音效 2
  打击垫 3        音效架上的音效 3
  打击垫 4        显示/隐藏音效架
  打击垫 5       更改音效架中的音效 1
  打击垫 6       更改音效架中的音效 2
  打击垫 7       更改音效架中的音效 3
  打击垫 8             -




               65
模式 7




在 DJUCED 中，模式 7 对应于 Slicer Loop 模式。在
Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 7 对应于
Manual Loop 模式。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 7 对应于 Slicer Loop 模式。在此
模式下，您可以将活动循环切换成八部分。


 1. 要进入模式 7 (Slicer Loop)，请同时按下 SHIFT 和
   STEMS 3。此时 STEMS 3 按钮会闪烁。
 2. 要将某部分设为循环进行播放，请按住打击垫不放。
 3. 要停止播放某个部分，请松开对应的打击垫。




                   66
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 7 对应于
Manual Loop 模式。此模式可用于手动启用循环。


 1. 要进入模式 7 (Manual Loop)，请同时按下 SHIFT 和
   STEMS 3。此时 STEMS 3 按钮会闪烁。
 2. 要执行某个操作，请按打击垫。


可能的操作：

  转盘 1/2                 音效

  打击垫 1          第一次按：设置切入点 (IN)
                 第二次按：修改切入点 (IN)
  打击垫 2         第一次按：设置退出点 (OUT)
                第二次按：修改退出点 (OUT)


  打击垫 3               启用/禁用循环
  打击垫 4      将播放指针移动到循环的开头处并播放
                      循环 (Reloop)
AUTOLOOP 编         增大/减小循环的长度
    码器




                    67
模式 8




在 DJUCED 中，模式 8 对应于 BeatJump 模式。在
Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 8 对应于
Scratch Banks 模式。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 8 对应于 BeatJump 模式。在此
模式下，您可以在曲目中精准跳转。


 1. 要进入模式 8 (BeatJump)，请同时按下 SHIFT 和
  SAMPLER 4。此时 SAMPLER 4 按钮会闪烁。
 2. 要进行跳转，请按打击垫。


跳转的长度：

   转盘 1 / 转盘 2              跳转

       打击垫 1              后退 1 节拍
       打击垫 2              前进 1 节拍
       打击垫 3              后退 2 节拍
       打击垫 4              前进 2 节拍
       打击垫 5              后退 4 节拍
       打击垫 6              前进 4 节拍
       打击垫 7              后退 8 节拍
       打击垫 8              前进 8 节拍

                    68
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 8 对应于
Scratch   Banks   模式。在此模式下，您可以将搓碟样曲
（取代当前正在播放的曲目）即时加载到转盘中，以便在
电动缓动盘上进行搓碟，然后快速返回当前正在播放的曲
目。
要显示搓碟样曲面板，请单击 Serato DJ Lite 中的        。


  1. 要进入模式 8 (Scratch Banks)，请同时按下 SHIFT
    和 SAMPLER 4。此时 SAMPLER 4 按钮会闪烁。
  2. 要播放搓碟样曲，请按打击垫。
  3. 要停止播放搓碟样曲并返回之前正在播放的样曲，请
    同时按 SHIFT 和对应的打击垫。


样曲：

     转盘 1 / 转盘 2             样曲

          打击垫 1              Ahh!
          打击垫 2            Hey You!
          打击垫 3              Oww!
          打击垫 4              Yeah!




                     69
搓碟

搓碟可以通过转动电动缓动盘利用曲目生成一种音效。


将食指置于电动缓动盘顶部，并向左向右快速小幅移动食
指。


您可以通过多次重复此搓碟操作来创建韵律。




− 在搓碟或混音之前，请务必将毛毡滑垫铺在电动缓动
 盘和黑胶唱片之间。
− 将黑胶唱片放在电动缓动盘上时，请勿用强力。否
 则，有可能会损坏黑胶唱片的中心。




             70
滤波器

通过调节曲目滤波器，您可以减弱特定频率的声音。


 − 减弱高频声音（被称为低通滤波器或高切滤波器）：
  向左转动滤波器旋钮 (FILTER)。
 − 减弱低频声音（被称为高通滤波器或低切滤波器）：
  向右转动滤波器旋钮 (FILTER)。




               71
 6.      多声道声卡

DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机配有内置多声道声卡，让您
可以一边通过音箱为听众播放混音（用于连接音箱的
Master   输出），一边通过耳机监听您正在制作的下一首
曲目（耳机输出），并使用麦克风和/或配备线路电平输
出的设备作为音频源。




                 72
Master 输出（输出 1-2，用于连接音箱）

您的有源音箱必须连接到 DJ 打碟机背部的两个用于连接
音箱的 Master 输出之一。




可以同时使用两种输出格式。例如，将一对输出连接到
PA 系统，将另一对输出连接到监听音箱。




                   73
耳机输出（输出 3-4）

您的耳机必须连接到 DJ 打碟机正面的两个耳机输出
之一。




默认情况下，每次连接 DJ 打碟机时，耳机输出都会被分
配到输出 3-4，以便其可用于市场上提供的所有 DJ 软件
（特别是 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite）。


但是，如果您希望通过 DJ 打碟机的耳机输出来聆听计算
机上（例如使用 iTunes 播放）的音乐，则必须将输出 1-
2 分配给耳机输出。为此，请按 MASTER 音量计下方的
   按钮。




                   74
我们不建议您同时连接两副耳机（例如，一副连接到
3.5 mm 迷你插孔输出接头，另一副连接到 6.35 mm 插
孔输出接头）。如果两副耳机的阻抗不同，它们将会输
出不同的音量。




               75
麦克风输入

您的麦克风必须连接到位于 DJ 打碟机背部的麦克风输
入。麦克风输入为平衡式。




               76
您可连接平衡式或非平衡式麦克风。平衡式麦克风可产
生更清晰、更强劲的声音，同时降低呼吸效应。若未使
用平衡电缆连接平衡式麦克风，您的麦克风电缆将会降
低麦克风的音质。


                平衡电缆


     Tip（针头）
    Ring（圆环）
   Sleeve（套管）




                非平衡电缆


     Tip（针头）


   Sleeve（套管）




                 77
  7.     兼容性

USB Audio / USB MIDI

本 DJ 打碟机即插即用，符合 USB Audio 和 USB MIDI
标准，在任何 PC 或 Mac 上均无需安装驱动程序即可搭
配 DJUCED 使用。



ASIO 和 Windows® 控制面板

要通过 Serato DJ Lite 使用 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟
机，您必须安装 ASIO 驱动程序。此处可下载 ASIO 驱动
程序：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


如果您使用的是 DJUCED，您也可以下载 ASIO 驱动程
序，以便在 PC 上享受低延迟的优势。


ASIO 驱动程序附带控制面板，您可通过 PC 的任务栏或
导航到 C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\ 目录来访问该控制面板。通过此面
板，您可以调整各种 ASIO 设置，包括缓冲区大小和延
时。




                        78
要调整 ASIO 设置，请：
 − 将 ASIO 缓冲区大小设置为 4 或 8 ms。
 − 启动您的软件（例如：DJUCED®），并选择
  DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) 驱动程序：




在软件开始使用 ASIO 驱动程序后，即无法再在控制面板
中修改 ASIO 设置。这很正常，表明 ASIO 驱动程序正在
使用中。




                    79
使用您的软件并仔细聆听音频是否存在任何可能的故障或
杂音（击键声、爆裂声）或是否存在任何延迟问题。如果
出现故障或杂音，您将需要增大缓冲区大小，以解决问
题。


关闭软件，并调节 ASIO 缓冲区，每次调节一个值：
  − 减小缓冲区大小以降低延迟。
  − 如果发现音频出现故障或杂音，则增加缓冲区大小。


您需要重复此程序，直到发现系统的最佳缓冲区大小。


此处可下载驱动程序：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                        80
固件更新

您的 DJ 打碟机配备自动固件更新模式。要使用此模式，
需要安装 Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）驱动程序并按照屏幕上的
说明进行操作。然后，固件更新即会自动进行。


此处可下载驱动程序：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


您还可以通过控制面板访问此信息，并在“ABOUT”（关
于）选项卡中查看您的计算机上安装的驱动程序版本。如
果您需要联系 Hercules（嗨 酷 乐）技术支持，请准备好
提供该信息。




                        81
在控制面板中测试 DJ 打碟机

在 DJControl Inpulse T7 控制面板的 ABOUT（关于）部
分，您可以测试 DJ 打碟机的声音、MIDI 控件和灯光以及
电动缓动盘。


要访问控制面板，请进入以下目录：C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\。



      音频测试

要测试 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机的音频接口是否发出
声音（在不使用 DJ 软件的情况下执行此测试），请单击
音箱图标。该图标在测试期间会变为绿色，该程序会在连
接音箱和耳机的 Master 输出上播放声音。




                      82
    MIDI 控件测试

要测试 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机的 MIDI 控件是否正
常工作（在不使用 DJ 软件的情况下执行此测试），请尝
试使用这些按钮或者您希望测试的其他控件。如果               DIN
接头图标变为绿色，这意味着正在接收 MIDI 命令，该按
钮或其他控件正常工作。




                   83
    灯光测试

要测试 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机的 LED 是否正常发
光（在不使用 DJ 软件的情况下执行此测试），请单击灯
泡图标以点亮打碟机的        LED。该图标在测试期间会变为
绿色，打碟机的 LED 会点亮。




您也可以通过同时按两个转盘上的 IN 和 OUT 按钮来点
亮 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机的所有 LED。




                   84
 4. 电动缓动盘测试

要测试 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机的电动缓动盘是否正
常工作（在不使用 DJ 软件的情况下执行此测试），请单
击缓动盘 1 或 2 的图标。对应缓动盘和 DIN 接头的图标
在测试期间会变为绿色，电动缓动盘会在打碟机上运动
（例如转动）。


测试 1 号电动缓动盘：




测试 2 号电动缓动盘：




                 85
 8.   演示模式

将 DJ 打碟机连接到电源和 USB 电源时（但不连接计算
机），即可使用此模式，此模式尤多用于店内展示。在此
情况下，本 DJ 打碟机将无法正常工作，而是处于演示模
式，演示序列将点亮打碟机的不同指示灯，并一直重复运
行。




             86
 9.    常见问题解答

 1.    我的耳机不出声。

请确保已将耳机连接到 DJ 打碟机的正面，您的 DJ 打碟
机配有多声道声卡且此声卡已预配置为搭配 DJUCED® 和
Serato DJ Lite 使用。
默认情况下，首次启动软件时将启用 2 个监听按钮。然
后，您可以选择要在耳机上监听的转盘，或者使用
MASTER 音量计下方的         按钮监听您的混音效果。




                     87
 2.   我的耳机上的声音失真或太小。

确保您的耳机带有       TRS        接头（标准耳机），而不是
TRRS 接头（耳机 + 麦克风）。


        针头                    针头
        圆环                    圆环
        套筒                    圆环
                              套筒




TRRS 接头不兼容 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机。




                     88
 3.   我的音箱不出声。

请确保已将音箱连接到 DJ 打碟机背面的 RCA 或 XLR 接
头，您的 DJ 打碟机配有多声道声卡且此声卡已预配置为
搭配 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 使用。


为了（在不使用       DJ   软件的条件下）测试      DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟机的音频接口是否能发出声音，您可以显
示 DJ 打碟机的控制面板。单击 ABOUT（关于）选项
卡，然后单击音箱图标。当发出声音时，该图标会变为绿
色。




                    89
4.     我的笔记本电脑音箱不出声。

您的 DJ 打碟机配备预先配置的多声道声卡。如果您希望
使用笔记本电脑内置的扬声器，请：
 − 在 DJUCED® 中，访问设置并勾选（将主信号发送到
     计算机扬声器）选项。




 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，访问设置，打开 Audio（音
     频）选项卡并勾选 Use Laptop Speakers（使用笔记
     本电脑扬声器）选项。




                   90
5.      我的耳机或笔记本电脑音箱不出
     声。

默认情况下，声音来自 Master 输出（用于连接音箱）和
耳机输出。因此，您的笔记本电脑扬声器不出声是正常
的。


如果您希望使用笔记本电脑内置的扬声器，请：
 − 在 DJUCED® 中，访问设置并勾选（将主信号发送到
     计算机扬声器）选项。您必须将耳机连接到
     DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机。




                       91
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，访问设置，打开 Audio（音
     频）选项卡并勾选 Use Laptop Speakers（使用笔记
     本电脑扬声器）选项。您必须将耳机连接到
     DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机。




为了（在不使用         DJ   软件的条件下）测试   DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟机的音频接口是否能发出声音，您可以显
示 DJ 打碟机的控制面板。单击 ABOUT（关于）选项
卡，然后单击音箱图标。当发出声音时，该图标会变为绿
色。




                       92
 6.   我使用   Windows® 时遇到音质问
  题。

当前播放曲目的音量太低

DJ 软件的主音量与 DJ 打碟机上的音量控制无关。因
此，只要 DJ 软件的主音量很小，Master 输出的音量也会
很小。


检查 DJ 软件的音量，如有必要，增大该音量。


 − 在 DJUCED 中，使用窗口右上角任务栏中的音量按
  钮。




 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，使用窗口右上角任务栏中的音
  量按钮。




                93
我的耳机上的声音太小。

在 Serato DJ Lite 中，访问设置，打开 Audio（音频）选
项卡并清除（即取消选中）Use Laptop Speakers（使用
笔记本电脑扬声器）选项。




                 94
如果您需要保持勾选（即选中）Use           Laptop   Speakers
（使用笔记本电脑扬声器），则将计算机的内置声卡设置
为“计算机扬声器”：
 1. 关闭 Serato DJ Lite 软件。
 2. 访问 Windows 设置并依次进入 System (系统) 和
  Sound (声音)。
 3. 在 Output (输出) 下，选择计算机的内置声卡。您的
  DJ 打碟机不能再被设置为输出。




Windows® 可能已将您的 DJ 打碟机设置为Windows® 声
卡。如果您保留此设置，Use Laptop Speakers (使用笔
记本电脑扬声器) 设置可在 DJ 打碟机的 4 声道输出
（Master 输出 + 耳机）上播放Master 输出。




                     95
声音不清楚

在 DJUCED® 中：
我们建议您使用 ASIO 音频设备。使用 WASAPI 设备
时，音质通常不错。然而，延迟可能会增加，导致声音可
能不清楚。


访问设置，单击 Audio (音频) 选项卡并选择 DJControl
Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) 作为 Audio device (音频设备)。




在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
访问设置，打开 Audio（音频）选项卡并清除（即取消选
中）Use Laptop Speakers（使用笔记本电脑扬声器）选
项。




                      96
 7.   我无法将我的多媒体音箱连接到
   DJControl Inpulse T7。

如果您的音箱接口与 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机上的接
口不同，您可以使用一个双 RCA 转 3.5 毫米迷你插孔转
接头（未附带）连接多媒体音箱，或者使用一个 XLR 转
6.35 mm 插孔转接头（未附带）连接 PA 音箱，或者采用
您的音箱所适用的任何其他形式转接头。
您也可以将音箱连接到耳机输出上并通过按下           MASTER
音量计下方的       按钮将输出 1-2 复制到输出 3-4 上。



 8.   DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机是否
   兼容 iPad 或 iPhone？

不兼容，DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟机不兼容 iPad 或
iPhone。它仅支持 PC 或 Mac。




                  97
 9.    我如何将 DJControl Inpulse T7 打
   碟机连接到               USB-C         端口或
   Thunderbolt 3 端口？

您可以使用以下三种不同的方式将 DJControl Inpulse T7
打碟机连接到 USB-C 端口或 Thunderbolt 3 端口：
 − 通过在计算机和 DJ 打碟机之间使用转接头（USB-C
   [公接头] 或 Thunderbolt 3 转 USB-A [母接头]）。请
   注意，有些低成本的转接头可能无法正常工作，因为
   它们切除了电源的一部分电路。
 − 通过在计算机和 DJ 打碟机之间使用扩展坞（USB-C
   或   Thunderbolt 3）。确保该扩展坞带有专用电源，
   因为只通过 USB-C 或 Thunderbolt 3 端口供电的扩
   展坞可能没有足够的电力。
 − 通过将随附的       USB    电缆替换为       USB-C   或
   Thunderbolt 3 转 USB-B 2.0 电缆。




                      98
         技术支持

https://support.hercules.com




            99
商标
Intel® 和 Intel Core™ 是 Intel Corporation 的商标或注册商标。
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 是 Microsoft Corporation 在美国和/或其他国
家/地区的注册商标或商标。
Mac® 和 macOS® 是 Apple Inc. 在美国和其他国家/地区注册的商标。
Serato、Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 是 Serato Audio Research
Limited 的注册商标。
DJUCED 品牌和 DJUCED 的图形元素是 Guillemot Corporation（基利
摩股份有限公司）的资产。
ASIO 是 Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH 的商标。
特此确认，本文档中的所有其他商标和商品名称均为其各自所有者的资
产。插图不具约束力。本文档中的内容、设计和规格可能因国家/地区而
异，并可能随时出现更改，恕不另行通知。




                            100
版权声明
未经 Guillemot Corporation S.A.（基利摩股份有限公司）明确书面同意，
不得以任何形式或利用电子、机械、电磁、手工抄写、影印、录制或其他
任何方式复制、摘录、传播、转录本手册的任何部分，或将其存储在检索
系统中或翻译成任何语言或计算机语言。




                      101
DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 最终用户
许可协议
请仔细阅读安装 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 时显示的许可协议。




                     102
使用者手冊
                                目錄
1.   包裝清單 ......................................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   技術規格 ....................................................... 10

3.   特性 .............................................................. 13

     概覽 ...................................................................13

     轉盤 ...................................................................14

     混音 ...................................................................32

     連接器 ...............................................................43

4.   安裝 .............................................................. 46

     連接 ...................................................................46

     下載軟體 ...........................................................49

5.   為您的混音增添光彩 ..................................... 54

     模式和打擊墊 ....................................................54

     迴圈模式 ...........................................................57

     搓碟 ...................................................................70

     濾波器 ...............................................................71
6.   多聲道音效卡 ................................................ 72

     Master 輸出（輸出 1-2，用於連接揚聲器）..73

     耳機輸出（輸出 3-4） ......................................74

     麥克風輸入........................................................76

7.   相容性 ........................................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO 和 Windows® 控制台 .............................78

     韌體更新 ...........................................................81

     在控制台中測試 DJ 打碟機..............................82

8.   演示模式 ....................................................... 86

9.   常見問題解答 ................................................ 87
Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）DJControl Inpulse T7 是一款功能齊
全的打碟機，其配備兩個電動緩動盤，提供視訊教程並整

合 DJUCED 和 Serato DJ Lite 軟體，旨在輔助您精通黑
膠唱機的藝術。




Hercules （ 嗨 酷 樂 ） DJControl Inpulse T7 包 含
Serato DJ Lite 授權，但不包含 Serato DJ Pro 授權。
使用者可以無時間限制地使用 Serato DJ Lite。
如果您安裝的是 Serato DJ Pro，而不是 Serato DJ
Lite，則 Serato DJ Pro 可在其試用期內搭配 DJControl
Inpulse T7 運作。在試用期結束後，如果您希望繼續使
用 Serato DJ Pro，則必須購買 Serato DJ Pro 授權。




                    4
提供各種視訊教程，輔助您學習如何使用 Hercules
（嗨 酷 樂）DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機進行混音：

 − Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）DJ Academy：

     o 在 DJUCED 中，按一下     圖示。

     o 在 DJUCED 網站中。

 − Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）Audio YouTube 頻道。

 − The DJ Coach，包含由 DJ HAPA 在 Serato DJ
   Lite 上提供的課程。




                  5
 1.   包裝清單

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）DJControl Inpulse T7

 − 2 張黑膠唱片（7 英吋 / 17.8 釐米）

 − 2 個毛氈滑墊

 − 編織 USB 連接線

 − 可拆卸式電源線

 − 電源配接器

 − 使用說明

 − 保修資訊卡




                     6
您可以撕掉    Hercules （ 嗨   酷   樂 ） DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟機上覆蓋音量計的保護膜。也可以保留
該保護膜，只要其不影響您使用音量計。




                 7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
− Hercules （ 嗨      酷   樂 ） DJControl Inpulse T7
  Premium Edition
− 2 張黑膠唱片（7 英吋 / 17.8 釐米）

− 2 個毛氈滑墊

− 2 個薄毛氈滑墊

− 編織 USB 連接線

− 可拆卸式電源線

− 電源配接器

− 手提包

− 使用說明

− 保修資訊卡




您可以撕掉        Hercules （ 嗨    酷   樂 ） DJControl
Inpulse T7 Premium Edition 打碟機上覆蓋音量計的保
護膜。也可以保留該保護膜，只要其不影響您使用音量
計。




                        9
 2.   技術規格

系統要求：
 − DJUCED：
   https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
 − Serato DJ Lite：
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
   uirements#system-requirements


音訊輸出：
         o 解析度 = 24 位
         o 採樣頻率 = 44.1 kHz


Master 輸出（輸出 1-2，用於連接揚聲器），連接方式：
 − 2 個 RCA 接頭：
         o 最大輸出功率 = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
 − 2 個 XLR 接頭（平衡式）：
         o 最大輸出功率 = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


透過一個 3.5 mm 立體聲迷你插孔接頭和一個 6.35 mm
立體聲插孔接頭連接耳機輸出（輸出 3-4）：
         o 最大輸出功率 = 5 dBU（32 Ω，1 kHz 條件
           下）


麥克風輸入，透過一個 6.35 mm 插孔接頭（平衡式）連接




                       10
           電源

− 僅使用使用者手冊中標示的電源。

− 僅在電源銘牌上標明的網路電壓和頻率下使用電源。




            11
           有關電源的資訊
 已發佈資訊                 值               單位
製造商名稱或商標        GUILLEMOT
             CORPORATION S.A.
  企業編號
           414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
   地址
           2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                56910 Carentoir
                      法國
   型號           A481-1852590D
  輸入電壓            100 – 240             V
輸入交流電頻率              50 - 60           Hz
  輸出電壓                18.5             V DC
  輸出電流                2.6               A
  輸出功率                47.9              W
平均工作效率                87.8              %
低負載時的效率               87.8              %
  (10%)
  空載功耗                0.10              W




                12
3.     特性

概覽




1. 電動緩動盤
2. 走帶按鈕（Play、Cue、Sync、Shift）
3. 迴圈控制項 (Loop)
4. 曲目選取控制項（Browser、Load、Assist./Prep.）
5. 速度推子 (Pitch fader)
6. 打擊墊和模式
7. 播放模式
8. 監 聽 、 音 量 （ Master 、 耳 機 和 麥 克 風 ） 和
     Beatmatch Guide
9. 混音區域（Gain、EQ、Filter）
10. 混音器（交叉推子、音量推子）
11. 音效




                       13
轉盤

1. 電動緩動盤




毛氈滑墊：鋪在電動緩動盤和黑膠唱片之間。它可以保護
黑膠唱片，防止其受到緩動盤摩擦的影響，同時減輕了播
放唱片時的振動。




您必須始終確保在安裝黑膠唱片之前先在電動緩動盤上
鋪上毛氈滑墊。




           14
黑膠唱片：可用於搓碟、加快或減慢播放速度以及在曲目
內部移動。
黑膠唱片標籤上的直線是供混音和搓碟時使用的參考點
（即標記）。


執行的操作取決於以下兩個條件：

 − 曲目處於播放狀態還是暫停狀態；

 − 您觸摸黑膠唱片的位置（頂部或圓環）。


            頂部




  圓環




            15
使用 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 時如何操作黑膠唱
片：


     播放/暫停       電動緩動盤         SHIFT 按鈕

      播放           頂部              -

                   搓碟

      播放         頂部/圓環          按住不放

             在曲目內部快速移動

      播放           圓環              -

             加快或減慢播放速度

      暫停         頂部/圓環             -

             在曲目內部緩慢移動

      暫停         頂部/圓環          按住不放

             在曲目內部快速移動




                    16
使用 DJUCED 對黑膠唱片執行的操作：



  播放/暫停     電動緩動盤        SHIFT 按鈕

    播放        頂部            -

              搓碟

    播放       頂部/圓環       按住不放

          在曲目內部快速移動

    播放        圓環            -

          加快或減慢播放速度

    暫停        圓環            -

          在曲目內部緩慢移動




              17
電動緩動盤：驅動黑膠唱片，控制曲目的播放並根據速度
推子設定的速度控制曲目速度。


若已啟用 Beatmatch Guide 功能，則 BEAT ALIGN 視覺
指引會指示為了對齊兩首曲目的節拍格線，您需要向哪個
方向轉動電動緩動盤圓環（即緩動盤邊緣）。當兩個紅色
箭頭熄滅時，節拍格線即處於對齊狀態。


有 關 Beatmatch Guide 功 能 的 詳 細 資 訊 ， 請 閱 讀
Beatmatch Guide 部分。




無法停用緩動盤的電動功能。




− 當電動緩動盤轉動時，請勿用手長時間阻止緩動盤轉
  動，以免損害傳動系統。

− 將黑膠唱片放在電動緩動盤上時，請勿用強力。否
  則，有可能會損壞黑膠唱片的中心。




                      18
 2. 走帶按鈕




SHIFT：組合控制。例如：

 − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK)：鎖定曲目的音調。

 − SHIFT + IN：在 DJUCED® 中，可將當前活動迴圈的
  長度減半。


SYNC：啟用或停用自動同步兩首曲目的 BPM（每分鐘
節拍數）值。

 − SHIFT + SYNC：

    o 在 DJUCED 中 ： 將 該 轉 盤 設 定 為 主 同 步
     (Master Sync) 轉盤。
    o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：停用該轉盤的同步。




                   19
CUE：在曲目中插入一個記憶點以指定立即跳轉到或將轉
盤播放指針移動至記憶點的位置。

 − 曲目已暫停：在曲目暫停的位置插入一個記憶點。

 − 曲目正在播放：停止播放曲目並將轉盤播放指針移動
  到記憶點。

    o 在 DJUCED 中，若未定義記憶點，按 CUE 可
     停止播放並在播放指針所在的位置放置一個記憶
     點。
    o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中 ， 若 未 定 義 記 憶 點 ， 按
     CUE 可停止播放並在曲目的開頭放置一個記憶
     點。

 − CUE + PLAY：將播放指針移動到記憶點並從該點處
  播放曲目。

 − SHIFT + CUE：

   o 在 DJUCED 中：將播放指針移動到曲目開頭處
     並停止播放。
   o 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：將播放指針移動到曲目開
     頭處並開始播放。


播放/暫停：播放或暫停曲目。

 − SHIFT + PLAY：在 Serato DJ Lite 中，將播放指針
  移動到記憶點並從該標記處播放曲目。




                    20
 3. 迴圈控制項




AUTOLOOP 編碼器：

 − 按下編碼器：啟用或停用迴圈播放。

 − 轉動編碼器：調節迴圈的長度。


IN/OUT：透過選取切入點 (IN) 和退出點 (OUT) 啟用迴圈。
當迴圈處於活動狀態（即啟用）時：

 − 按住 IN（按鈕閃爍）的同時轉動電動緩動盤，可移
   動迴圈的起點。

 − 按住 OUT（按鈕閃爍）的同時轉動電動緩動盤，可
   移動迴圈的終點。
要退出迴圈，請按 AUTOLOOP 編碼器。
在 DJUCED® 中：

 − SHIFT + IN：可將當前活動迴圈的長度減半。

 − SHIFT + OUT：可將當前活動迴圈的長度加倍。

 − 長按 IN：啟用四節拍迴圈。




                21
 4. 曲目選取控制項




BROWSER 編碼器*：透過將編碼器向左（上）或向右
（下）旋轉瀏覽您的音樂庫和曲目清單。
按下此編碼器，以選取資料夾並將所選的曲目載入到目的
轉盤上。


發光圓環：

 − 在 DJUCED 中，表示主曲目的活力水準，而這與其
  速度密切相關。

 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，表示韻律。燈光會隨曲目的節
  拍而閃爍：
       o 紅色：指示第一個節拍。
       o 藍色：指示接下來的三個節拍。




                22
ASSIST./PREP.*：

 − 在 DJUCED 中，顯示針對您的混音建議最佳待播曲
   目的面板。
   要滾動瀏覽建議的曲目列表，請轉動 BROWSER 編
   碼器。
   要選取曲目，請按 BROWSER 編碼器。必須暫停此
   轉盤上已載入的曲目。
   按住 ASSIST./PREP. 按鈕的同時旋轉編碼器即可調
   節建議曲目的活力級別。

 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中 ， 將 當 前 播 放 曲 目 新 增 到
   Prepare（準備）列表。
   SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.：開啟 Prepare（準備）面
   板。


BACK*：可用於在 DJUCED 和 Serato DJ Lite 中滾動
瀏覽樹形結構。

 − 在 DJUCED 中，按 SHIFT 和 BACK 以返回音樂庫
   欄目。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。

                    23
 5. 速度推子




速度推子：透過調整 BPM 數設定曲目的播放速度。

 − 向上推：減慢曲目播放速度。

 − 向下推：加快曲目播放速度。

 − 速度推子位於中部：曲目的原始速度。白色 LED 指
   示燈點亮。


若啟用 Beatmatch Guide 功能，TEMPO 視覺指引會指示
您需要向上推還是向下推速度推子，以便減慢或加快曲目
播放速度。當兩個紅色箭頭熄滅時，該轉盤上的速度與另
一轉盤上的速度相同。


有 關 Beatmatch Guide 功 能 的 詳 細 資 訊 ， 請 閱 讀
Beatmatch Guide 部分。




                      24
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，若已啟用 SYNC
模式，則在按住 SHIFT 的同時移動速度推子可在保持振
幅不變的同時移動速度推子的值。


例如，當推子範圍為 ±8%（即振幅為 16%）時，您可以
移動速度推子的值，以覆蓋 0%（最大值）到 -16%（最
小值）的範圍，而其振幅仍然保持 16% 不變，但中心值
變為 -8%。




                     25
RANGE*：可用於變更速度推子的速度比例。

 − 在 DJUCED 中：± 6 %、± 8 %、± 10 %、± 12 %、
  ± 16 %、± 20 %、± 25 %、± 33 %、± 50 %

 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：± 8%、± 16%、± 50%。
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK)：鎖定曲目的音調。
要確保音調已鎖定，請按 SHIFT。此時 RANGE 按鈕將
點亮。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。

                    26
 6. 打擊墊和模式




模式按鈕：可啟用至多八種模式。
要啟用某種基本模式，請按 HOT CUE 1、LOOP 2、
STEMS 3 或 SAMPLER 4。
要 啟 用 附 加 模 式 （ MODE 5 、 MODE 6 、 MODE 7 和
MODE 8），請同時按下 SHIFT 和 HOT CUE 1、LOOP
2、STEMS 3 或 SAMPLER 4。此時，模式按鈕即會閃爍。
打擊墊上啟用的模式因所用軟體而異。


有關 DJUCED、Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中不
同模式的更多資訊，請閱讀模式和打擊墊部分。


打擊墊： 一個打擊墊執行一個操作。




                     27
 7. 播放模式




INSTRUMENTAL：可用于僅播放曲目的旋律、低音和鼓
聲部分。這是 Stems 模式的快捷方式。

 − 要僅播放曲目的旋律、低音和鼓聲部分，請按
  INSTRUMENTAL 按鈕。此時，該按鈕將會點亮。

 − 要復原播放曲目的所有部分（人聲、旋律、低音和鼓
  聲），請再次按 INSTRUMENTAL 按鈕。此時，該
  按鈕的指示燈將會熄滅。




              28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL：啟用 Slip 模式。在 Slip 模
式下，當您應用音效或迴圈、放置記憶點或者使用電動緩
動盤時，轉盤播放指針會在後臺繼續前進。當您停止應用
音效時，將會從一直正常播放狀態下所應達到的位置繼續
播放。
要確保啟用       Slip   模式，請按      SHIFT 。 此 時
INSTRUMENTAL 按鈕將點亮。




Serato DJ Lite 不支援 Slip 模式。
Serato DJ Pro 支援 Slip 模式。




                     29
VOCAL：可用于僅播放曲目的人聲部分。這是 Stems 模
式的快捷方式。

 − 要僅播放曲目的人聲部分，請按 VOCAL 按鈕。此時，
  該按鈕將會點亮。

 − 要復原播放曲目的所有部分（人聲、旋律、低音和鼓
  聲），請再次按 VOCAL 按鈕。此時，該按鈕的指示
  燈將會熄滅。


SHIFT + VOCAL：啟用量化模式。透過量化，您可以對
節拍格線上的下一個節拍應用某個操作（播放曲目、放置
記憶點、開始迴圈……）。
要確保啟用量化模式，請按 SHIFT。此時 VOCAL 按鈕將
點亮。




Serato DJ Lite 不支援量化模式。
Serato DJ Pro 支援量化模式。




                  30
      (pitch bend -) /   (pitch bend +)：可用於手動將
此轉盤上當前播放曲目的節拍格線與另一轉盤上當前播放
曲目的節拍格線對齊。

    − 按住       不放，以暫時減慢轉盤速度。

    − 按住       不放，以暫時加快轉盤速度。




在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，透過 SHIFT
+      和 SHIFT +         可調節特定模式下的設定（設
定）。




                         31
混音

 8. 監聽、音量和 Beatmatch Guide




MIC 音量：調節麥克風的音量。


MIC 發光圓環：指示音訊信號的音量（音量計）。
 − 熄滅：沒有音訊信號。

 − 綠色：正在播放音訊信號。

 − 紅色：音訊信號達到飽和狀態。


MASTER 音量：調節揚聲器上正在播放的混音的音量。


MASTER 音量計：顯示揚聲器 Master 輸出（RCA 或
XLR）的音訊信號水準。



                 32
HEADPHONES 音量：

 −     /    ：調節耳機上當前播放的信號，混合 Cue
     輸出（監聽轉盤 1 和 2）和 Mix 輸出（Master 輸
     出）。
      o 要僅收聽監聽輸出，請按轉盤 1 和 2 的監聽按
       鈕。此時，對應按鈕將會點亮。然後，將該旋鈕
       設定為 Cue。
      o 要僅收聽 Master 輸出，請按 Master 監聽按鈕。
       此時，該按鈕將會點亮。然後，將該旋鈕設定為
       Mix，即可調節耳機上正在播放的混音。

 −         ：調節耳機的輸出音量。




                  33
監聽：選取耳機上播放的音源。

 −     （位於 MASTER 音量計下方）：播放的混音聲
     音，同時也向聽眾大聲播放。

 −     *（位於 BEATMATCH GUIDE 按鈕的兩側）：
     當 Cue/Mix 按鈕設定為 Cue 時，播放轉盤 1 或轉盤
     2 的聲音。
在 Serato DJ Lite 中 ， 按 SHIFT 和   *（位於
BEATMATCH GUIDE 按鈕的旁邊），以修改此轉盤上正
在播放的曲目的節拍格線。要退出節拍格線模式，請按一
下 Edit Grid（編輯節拍格線）。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。

                   34
BEATMATCH GUIDE：啟用或停用燈光指引，以調整速
度並對齊兩首曲目的節拍格線。每個轉盤有四個紅色箭頭。




DJUCED® 將其中一個轉盤定義為主同步 (Master Sync)
轉盤，而將另一個轉盤定義為從轉盤。紅色箭頭僅在從
轉盤上點亮，因為該轉盤跟隨主同步轉盤的節奏。
Serato DJ Lite 未定義主同步轉盤。紅色箭頭在兩個轉
盤上都會點亮。




                35
− TEMPO 視覺指引：如果速度推子右側的兩個紅色箭
 頭之一點亮，這意味著，此轉盤上播放的曲目的速度
 （即每分鐘節拍數）與另一轉盤上的曲目速度不同。
 此箭頭指示為了調整正在播放的曲目速度使之與另一
 轉盤的曲目速度相同，您需要向哪個方向移動速度推
 子。
      o 頂部箭頭點亮：向上移動速度推子。這樣會
       減慢速度。
      o 底部箭頭點亮：向下移動速度推子。這樣會
       加快速度。
      o 箭頭未點亮：轉盤的速度與主同步轉盤的速
       度相同。




               36
− BEAT ALIGN 視覺指引：如果電動緩動盤下方的兩
 個紅色箭頭之一點亮，這意味著，此轉盤上播放的曲
 目的節拍未與另一轉盤上的曲目節拍對齊。
 此箭頭指示為了使正在播放的曲目的節拍與另一轉盤
 的曲目節拍對齊，您需要向哪個方向轉動電動緩動盤。
    o 左側箭頭點亮：順時針轉動電動緩動盤。這
     樣會加快播放速度。
    o 右側箭頭點亮：逆時針轉動電動緩動盤。這
     樣會減慢播放速度。
    o 箭頭未點亮：轉盤的節拍與另一轉盤的節拍
     已對齊。




             37
 9. 混音區




GAIN 旋鈕*：調節增益（即音訊信號進入音量推子之前的
音量）。


3 波段等化器 (EQ)*：控制 EQ 的強度。每個波段都有一
個相關聯的旋鈕：HIGH、MID 和 LOW。


FILTER 旋鈕*：調節雙通濾波器（高通和低通）的頻率。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。
               38
 10.   混音器




音量計：顯示轉盤 1 和 2 的音訊信號水準。


音量推子*：調整轉盤音量。


交叉推子：可用於透過在增大其中一個轉盤的音量的同時
減小另一個轉盤的音量來在兩首曲目之間進行轉調。

 − 交叉推子撥到最左邊：您只能收聽轉盤 1 上的曲目。

 − 交叉推子撥到最右邊：您只能收聽轉盤 2 上的曲目。

 − 交叉推子置於中間時：聽眾可同時聽到轉盤 1 和 2
   上播放的曲目。




              39
曲線開關：可用於修改交叉推子曲線。

 −    (mix)：對兩個轉盤進行漸進式混音。

 −    (scratch)：非常快速地對兩個轉盤進行混音。

 −    （已停用）：交叉推子已停用，以便僅使用音量
     推子進行混音。




在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，您可以修改交
叉推子的設定。依次進入「設定」和 Mixer：

− Power（強力）：快速曲線，用於搓碟。

− Linear（線性）：漸增式曲線，用於混音。

− Reverse（反轉）：反轉交叉推子的方向，亦稱為
 「Hamster」模式。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。
                   40
 11.   音效




要顯示音效架，請：
 − 在 DJUCED 中：按一下                     。
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中：按一下                  。


音效按鈕       /   /   *：可用於從音效架上選取音效。此
時，該按鈕將會點亮。
要啟用音效，請使用演奏撥片。
要修改與按鈕         /   /       相關聯的音效，請在音效架中選
取一個新音效。在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，
您也可以按 SHIFT 和              、       或       ，以顯示音效清單，
然後再次按 SHIFT 和              、       或       ，以滾動瀏覽清單並
選取新音效。




在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
− 無法同時合併多種音效。
− 左側的三種音效              /       /       應用於左轉盤（轉盤
 1），右側的三種音效                    /   /       應用於右轉盤（轉
 盤 2）。

                           41
在 Serato DJ Pro 中，兩組音效（每組三種音效）均可
應用於兩個虛擬轉盤。


演奏撥片*：可用于啟用按鈕       、   或   上的音效。有
三種不同的位置：

 − HOLD：在撥片處於此位置時，持續啟用該音效。

 − ON：在撥片處於此位置時，短暫啟用該音效。

 − 中心位置：停用音效。


DEPTH 旋鈕：調節音效的強度。


 /   按鈕：調節同步到音樂的音效迴圈持續時長。




DJUCED 不包含此功能。




*此功能在轉盤 1 和 2 上完全相同。

               42
連接器




 12.   Master 輸出（輸出 1-2，用於連接揚聲器）
 13.   平衡式麥克風輸入
 14.   USB-B 2.0 埠
 15.   POWER 按鈕
 16.   電源配接器接頭
 17.   耳機輸出（輸出 3-4）


Master 輸出（輸出 1-2，用於連接揚聲器）：可用於連
接有源揚聲器。
介面形式：2 x 非平衡式 RCA (Cinch) 和 2 x 非平衡式
XLR。


平衡式麥克風輸入：可用于連接平衡式或非平衡式麥克風。
格式：6.35 mm 插孔。



                     43
USB-B 2.0 埠：可用於將打碟機連接到電腦。


電源按鈕：可用於開啟和關閉 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟
機。


電 源配接 器接 頭 ： 可 用 於 連接 電 源 線 並 使 用 配 接 器 將
DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機插接到電氣插座上。


耳機輸出（輸出 3-4）：可用於連接耳機，以監聽曲目。
介面形式：3.5 mm 立體聲迷你插孔接頭和 6.35 mm 立體
聲插孔輸出。




                   44
伸出四個可伸縮式支腿，以升高 DJControl Inpulse T7
打碟機並在其底部佈線。




− 在運輸 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機之前，請將支腿
 收起來。

− 不使用 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機時，請將支腿收
 起來。

− 當伸出支腿時，請勿在 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機
 上放置超過 5 千克的重物或施加超過 50 牛頓的壓
 力。




                  45
4.    安裝

連接

1. 將電源配接器連接到 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機。
2. 將電源線連接到電源配接器，並將其插接到電氣插座
 上。
3. 將 USB 連 接 線 的 兩 端 分 別 連 接 到 DJControl
 Inpulse T7 打碟機和電腦。
4. 按 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機上的 POWER 按鈕。
 此按鈕為按下狀態。
5. 確保揚聲器為關機狀態，或者，如果揚聲器連接到外
 部功放，確保該功放為關機狀態。將有源揚聲器的輸
 入連接到 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機上用於連接揚
 聲器的 Master 輸出（2 x RCA 或 2 x XLR）。
6. 在 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機上，將 MASTER 音
 量調節至最低水準，然後關閉揚聲器。
7. 將耳機掛在脖子上（而不是掛到耳朵上），然後將耳
 機連接到 3.5 mm 迷你插孔接頭或 6.35 mm 插孔接
 頭。
8. 將麥克風連接到麥克風輸入（可選）。




                  46
           電源

− 僅使用使用者手冊中標示的電源。

− 僅在電源銘牌上標明的網路電壓和頻率下使用電源。




            47
− 無法同時使用兩種輸出格式（XLR 和 RCA），例
 如，將一對輸出連接到 PA 系統，將另一對輸出連接
 到監聽揚聲器。

− 每次將 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機連接到電腦時都
 會 啟 動 LED 指 示 燈 亮 起 序 列 （ 稱 為 Vegas
 Mode）。Vegas Mode 有四個階段，可點亮所有
 LED 並在打擊墊和 BROWSER 編碼器的背光圓環上
 顯示不同的顏色。




                  48
下載軟體

DJUCED

 1. 請瀏覽：https://www.djuced.com/hercules。
 2. 下載並安裝 DJUCED®。
 3. 請瀏覽：
  https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
  pulset7/.
 4. 下載並安裝適合您的電腦作業系統的驅動程式包。
        o macOS®：HDJC Series Mac
        o Windows®：HDJC Series PC
   Windows® 要求您安裝驅動程式，方可在 ASIO 模式
   下使用 DJControl Inpulse T7，相對於 WASAPI 模
   式，該模式延遲更低，通常也更穩定。
   透 過 此 驅 動 程 式 ， 您 還 可 以 測 試 DJControl
   Inpulse T7 打碟機並在 Windows® 和 macOS® 中驗
   證其韌體版本。

 5. 啟動 DJUCED 軟體。此時將顯示一個視窗，表明
  DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機已成功透過偵測，可開
  始使用。




                      49
第一次運作 DJUCED® 時，該軟體會引導您連接耳機和
有源揚聲器（或者，如果您沒有外置有源揚聲器的話，
允許您使用電腦的內建揚聲器）。開始使用之前，請先
遵循螢幕上的資訊執行每一步操作。


音訊設定：
在 DJUCED® 中，要修改音效卡設定，請按一下螢幕右上
角的齒輪圖示      。此時將會顯示「設定」功能表。
選取 Audio（音訊）索引標籤以選取音效卡，並分配耳機
和音箱的輸出。


針對 Windows® 的標準設定如下：

 − 音訊裝置：DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)

 − 輸出：
        o 主輸出：Outputs 1&2
        o Headphones:Outputs 3&4




                     50
針對 macOS® 的標準設定如下：

 − 音訊裝置：DJControl Inpulse T7

 − 輸出：
       o 主輸出：Outputs 1&2
       o Headphones:Outputs 3&4




                    51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. 請瀏覽： https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads。
 2. 下載並安裝 Serato DJ Lite。
 3. 請瀏覽：
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. 下載並安裝適合您的電腦作業系統的驅動程式包。
         o macOS®:HDJC Series Mac
         o Windows®:HDJC Series PC
    Windows® 要求您安裝驅動程式，方可在 ASIO 模式
    下使用 DJControl Inpulse T7，相對於 WASAPI 模
    式，該模式延遲更低，通常也更穩定。
    透 過 此 驅 動 程 式 ， 您 還 可 以 測 試 DJControl
    Inpulse T7 打碟機並在 Windows® 和 macOS® 中驗
    證其韌體版本。




                       52
Hercules （ 嗨 酷 樂 ） DJControl Inpulse T7 包 含
Serato DJ Lite 授權，但不包含 Serato DJ Pro 授權。
使用者可以無時間限制地使用 Serato DJ Lite。
如果您安裝的是 Serato DJ Pro，而不是 Serato DJ
Lite ， 則 Serato DJ Pro 可 在 其 試 用 期 內 搭 配
DJControl Inpulse T7 運作。在試用期結束後，如果您
希望繼續使用 Serato DJ Pro，則必須購買 Serato DJ
Pro 授權。




                    53
 5.   為您的混音增添光彩

有幾種方式可以為您的混音增添光彩。



模式和打擊墊

打擊墊

在 DJUCED 中，打擊墊 1 至 8 分別執行與當前已啟用
模式相對應的各項操作。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，打擊墊 1 至 4 分別執行與當前已啟
用模式相對應的各項操作。打擊墊 5 至 8 分別執行以下
操作：

 − 打擊墊 5：Reverse（倒播）

 − 打擊墊 6：倒帶

 − 打擊墊 7：快進

 − 打擊墊 8：Censor。透過此操作，您可在按住打擊墊
   不放時倒序播放曲目。一旦鬆開打擊墊，即會從一直
   正常播放狀態下所應達到的位置繼續播放。此操作可
   用於遮擋歌曲中的不雅之詞。




                  54
打擊墊上啟用的模式因所用軟體而異。



模式 DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

 1    Hot Cue        Hot Cue         Hot Cue

 2   Loop Roll      Auto Loop       Auto Loop
 3     Stems          Stems           Stems
 4    Sampler        Sampler         Sampler
 5   TonePlay           –            Pitch Play
 6     PadFX            –            Loop Roll
 7   Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
 8   BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**未包含 Serato DJ Pro 授權。




                            55
Hot Cue 模式

Hot Cue 點是一個可在曲目中設定的標記（類似於書簽），
可用于再次在曲目中輕鬆定位到該時間點並在之後立即返
回原位置。


在 DJUCED 中，每首曲目可以設定八個 Hot Cue 點。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，每首曲目可以設定四個 Hot Cue 點。
在 Serato DJ Pro 中，每首曲目可以設定八個 Hot Cue 點。


 1. 要進入 Hot Cue 模式，請按 HOT CUE 1。HOT
   CUE 1 按鈕燈保持常亮。
 2. 要設定 Hot Cue 點，請按打擊墊。
 3. 要從 Hot Cue 點開始播放曲目，請按對應的打擊墊。
 4. 要刪除 Hot Cue 點，請同時按下 SHIFT 和打擊墊。




                  56
迴圈模式




在 DJUCED 中，此模式對應於 Loop Roll 模式。當您
應用迴圈時，轉盤播放指針會在後臺繼續前進。當您停
用迴圈時，將會從一直正常播放狀態下所應達到的位置
繼續播放。
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，此模式對應於
Auto Loop 模式。


迴圈是指曲目中重複播放的部分。


 1. 要進入 Loop 模式，請按 LOOP 2。LOOP 2 按鈕燈
   保持常亮。


在 DJUCED 中：
 2. 要應用迴圈，請按住某個打擊墊不放。
 3. 要停用迴圈，請鬆開對應的打擊墊。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
 2. 要應用迴圈，請按打擊墊。
 3. 要 停 用 迴 圈 ， 請 按 對 應 的 打 擊 墊 。



                      57
迴圈長度：

 轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2   DJUCED   Serato DJ Lite

   打擊墊 1       1/16 節拍       1 節拍
   打擊墊 2        ⅛ 節拍         2 節拍
   打擊墊 3        ¼ 節拍         4 節拍
   打擊墊 4        ½ 節拍         8 節拍
   打擊墊 5        1 節拍           -
   打擊墊 6        2 節拍           -
   打擊墊 7        4 節拍           -
   打擊墊 8        8 節拍           -




                58
Stems 模式

Stems 模式可用於將一個音軌分離成四個不同的部分（人
聲和樂聲），這些部分稱為「stems」。


 1. 要進入 Stems 模式，請按 STEMS 3。STEMS 3 按
   鈕燈保持常亮。
 2. 打擊墊 1 至 4 分別對應一個 stem。要停止播放某個
   stem，請按對應的打擊墊。此時，該打擊墊的指示
   燈熄滅。
 3. 要復原播放某個 stem，請按對應的打擊墊。此時，
   該打擊墊點亮。


Stems：

    轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2          Stem

         打擊墊 1           人聲
         打擊墊 2           旋律
         打擊墊 3           低音
         打擊墊 4           鼓聲




                  59
在一個音軌中首次啟用 stems 時，音軌分離並非總是
立即完成。這可能需要片刻時間，在該過程中，DJ 軟
體會分析該音軌並生成不同的部分（人聲、旋律、低
音、鼓聲）。


請務必在分離 stems 和播放 stems 之間留出足夠的時
間 。 一 旦 生 成 stems 的 不 同 部 分 ， 便 可 立 即 播 放
stems 了。


要使用 Stems 模式，需要使用強大的電腦。




                    60
Sampler 模式

樣曲是指疊加到當前播放曲目上播放的一小段聲音：可以
是一次性播放 (jingle)，也可以是反復播放（迴圈）。


在 DJUCED 中，您可使用打擊墊 1 至 8 來播放多層採
樣器的前兩行中所出現的 8 首樣曲。

要顯示多層採樣器，請在 DJUCED 左上角下拉式功能表
中選取 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers。


在 Serato DJ Lite 中，您可使用打擊墊 1 至 4 來播放樣曲。
要顯示樣曲面板，請在 Serato DJ Lite 中按一下        。


 1. 要 進 入 Sampler 模 式 ， 請 按 SAMPLER 4 。
   SAMPLER 4 按鈕燈保持常亮。
 2. 要播放樣曲，請按某個打擊墊。
 3. 要停止播放樣曲，請同時按下 SHIFT 和對應的打擊
   墊。




                      61
模式 5




Serato DJ Lite 不支援模式 5 (TonePlay)。
Serato DJ Pro 搭配 Pitch 'n Time 外掛程式，可提供
Pitch Play 模式，該模式的工作原理與 TonePlay 模式
相同。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 5 對應於 TonePlay 模式。在此模
式下，允許以不同音調重放 Hot Cue 點。


 1. 啟用 Hot Cue 模式，然後選取 Hot Cue 點。
 2. 要進入模式 5，請同時按下 SHIFT 和 HOT CUE 1。
  此時 HOT CUE 1 按鈕將會閃爍。
 3. 要修改 Hot Cue 點的音調，請按打擊墊 2 至 8 中之
  一。
 4. 要復原原始音調，請按打擊墊 1。




                     62
修改打擊墊的方法：

  轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2         音調

    打擊墊 1            原始音調
    打擊墊 2             +1
    打擊墊 3             +2
    打擊墊 4             +3
    打擊墊 5             -1
    打擊墊 6             -2
    打擊墊 7             -3
    打擊墊 8             -4




                63
模式 6




Serato DJ Lite 不支援模式 6。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 6 對應於 PadFX 模式。此模式允
許您使用打擊墊控制音效架上的音效。
音效是指有時為了修飾聲音而對曲目應用的一種濾波器或
幾種濾波器的組合（回聲、混響等）。


要顯示音效架，請按一下         。


 1. 要進入模式 6，請同時按下 SHIFT 和 LOOP 2。此時
  LOOP 2 按鈕會閃爍。
 2. 要執行某個操作，請按打擊墊。
 3. 要停用迴圈，請按對應的打擊墊（打擊墊 1 至 3）。




                   64
可能的操作：

轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2         音效

  打擊墊 1        音效架上的音效 1
  打擊墊 2        音效架上的音效 2
  打擊墊 3        音效架上的音效 3
  打擊墊 4        顯示/隱藏音效架
  打擊墊 5       變更音效架中的音效 1
  打擊墊 6       變更音效架中的音效 2
  打擊墊 7       變更音效架中的音效 3
  打擊墊 8             -




               65
模式 7




在 DJUCED 中，模式 7 對應於 Slicer Loop 模式。在
Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 7 對應於
Manual Loop 模式。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 7 對應於 Slicer Loop 模式。在此
模式下，您可以將活動迴圈切換成八部分。


 1. 要進入模式 7 (Slicer Loop)，請同時按下 SHIFT 和
   STEMS 3。此時 STEMS 3 按鈕會閃爍。
 2. 要將某部分設為迴圈進行播放，請按住打擊墊不放。
 3. 要停止播放某個部分，請鬆開對應的打擊墊。




                   66
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 7 對應於
Manual Loop 模式。此模式可用於手動啟用迴圈。


 1. 要進入模式 7 (Manual Loop)，請同時按下 SHIFT 和
   STEMS 3。此時 STEMS 3 按鈕會閃爍。
 2. 要執行某個操作，請按打擊墊。


可能的操作：

  轉盤 1/2                 音效

  打擊墊 1          第一次按：設定切入點 (IN)
                 第二次按：修改切入點 (IN)
  打擊墊 2         第一次按：設定退出點 (OUT)
                第二次按：修改退出點 (OUT)


  打擊墊 3               啟用/停用迴圈
  打擊墊 4      將播放指針移動到迴圈的開頭處並播放
                      迴圈 (Reloop)
AUTOLOOP 編         增大/減小迴圈的長度
    碼器




                    67
模式 8




在 DJUCED 中，模式 8 對應於 BeatJump 模式。在
Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 8 對應於
Scratch Banks 模式。


在 DJUCED 中，模式 8 對應於 BeatJump 模式。在此
模式下，您可以在曲目中精準跳轉。


 1. 要進入模式 8 (BeatJump)，請同時按下 SHIFT 和
  SAMPLER 4。此時 SAMPLER 4 按鈕會閃爍。
 2. 要進行跳轉，請按打擊墊。


跳轉的長度：

   轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2              跳轉

       打擊墊 1              後退 1 節拍
       打擊墊 2              前進 1 節拍
       打擊墊 3              後退 2 節拍
       打擊墊 4              前進 2 節拍
       打擊墊 5              後退 4 節拍
       打擊墊 6              前進 4 節拍
       打擊墊 7              後退 8 節拍
       打擊墊 8              前進 8 節拍

                    68
在 Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 中，模式 8 對應於
Scratch Banks 模式。在此模式下，您可以將搓碟樣曲
（取代當前正在播放的曲目）即時載入到轉盤中，以便在
電動緩動盤上進行搓碟，然後快速返回當前正在播放的曲
目。
要顯示搓碟樣曲面板，請按一下 Serato DJ Lite 中的         。


 1. 要進入模式 8 (Scratch Banks)，請同時按下 SHIFT
   和 SAMPLER 4。此時 SAMPLER 4 按鈕會閃爍。
 2. 要播放搓碟樣曲，請按打擊墊。
 3. 要停止播放搓碟樣曲並返回之前正在播放的樣曲，請
   同時按 SHIFT 和對應的打擊墊。


樣曲：

     轉盤 1 / 轉盤 2             樣曲

       打擊墊 1                 Ahh!
       打擊墊 2               Hey You!
       打擊墊 3                 Oww!
       打擊墊 4                 Yeah!




                    69
搓碟

搓碟可以透過轉動電動緩動盤利用曲目生成一種音效。


將食指置於電動緩動盤頂部，並向左向右快速小幅移動食
指。


您可以透過多次重複此搓碟操作來建立韻律。




− 在搓碟或混音之前，請務必將毛氈滑墊鋪在電動緩動
 盤和黑膠唱片之間。

− 將黑膠唱片放在電動緩動盤上時，請勿用強力。否
 則，有可能會損壞黑膠唱片的中心。




             70
濾波器

透過調節曲目濾波器，您可以減弱特定頻率的聲音。


 − 減弱高頻聲音（被稱為低通濾波器或高切濾波器）：
  向左轉動濾波器旋鈕 (FILTER)。

 − 減弱低頻聲音（被稱為高通濾波器或低切濾波器）：
  向右轉動濾波器旋鈕 (FILTER)。




               71
 6.   多聲道音效卡

DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機配有內建多聲道音效卡，讓
您可以一邊透過揚聲器為聽眾播放混音（用於連接揚聲器
的 Master 輸出），一邊透過耳機監聽您正在製作的下一
首曲目（耳機輸出），並使用麥克風和/或配備線路電平
輸出的裝置作為音訊源。




                 72
Master 輸出（輸出 1-2，用於連接揚聲器）

您的有源揚聲器必須連接到 DJ 打碟機背部的兩個用於連
接揚聲器的 Master 輸出之一。




可以同時使用兩種輸出格式。例如，將一對輸出連接到
PA 系統，將另一對輸出連接到監聽揚聲器。




               73
耳機輸出（輸出 3-4）

您的耳機必須連接到 DJ 打碟機正面的兩個耳機輸出
之一。




預設情況下，每次連接 DJ 打碟機時，耳機輸出都會被分
配到輸出 3-4，以便其可用於市場上提供的所有 DJ 軟體
（特別是 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite）。


但是，如果您希望透過 DJ 打碟機的耳機輸出來聆聽電腦
上（例如使用 iTunes 播放）的音樂，則必須將輸出 1-2
分配給耳機輸出。為此，請按 MASTER 音量計下方的
   按鈕。




                   74
我們不建議您同時連接兩副耳機（例如，一副連接到
3.5 mm 迷你插孔輸出接頭，另一副連接到 6.35 mm 插
孔輸出接頭）。如果兩副耳機的阻抗不同，它們將會輸
出不同的音量。




               75
麥克風輸入

您的麥克風必須連接到位於 DJ 打碟機背部的麥克風輸入。
麥克風輸入為平衡式。




             76
您可連接平衡式或非平衡式麥克風。平衡式麥克風可產
生更清晰、更強勁的聲音，同時降低呼吸效應。若未使
用平衡連接線連接平衡式麥克風，您的麥克風連接線將
會降低麥克風的音質。


                平衡連接線

     Tip（針頭）
    Ring（圓環）

   Sleeve（套管）




                非平衡連接線


     Tip（針頭）


   Sleeve（套管）




                  77
  7.     相容性

USB Audio / USB MIDI

本 DJ 打碟機隨插即用，符合 USB Audio 和 USB MIDI
標準，在任何 PC 或 Mac 上均無需安裝驅動程式即可搭

配 DJUCED 使用。



ASIO 和 Windows® 控制台

要透過 Serato DJ Lite 使用 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機，
您必須安裝 ASIO 驅動程式。此處可下載 ASIO 驅動程式：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


如果您使用的是 DJUCED，您也可以下載 ASIO 驅動程
式，以便在 PC 上享受低延遲的優勢。


ASIO 驅動程式附帶控制台，您可透過 PC 的工作列或導
航 到      C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\ 目錄來存取該控制台。透過此面板，
您可以調整各種 ASIO 設定，包括緩衝區大小和延時。




                        78
要調整 ASIO 設定，請：

 − 將 ASIO 緩衝區大小設定為 4 或 8 ms。

 − 啟 動 您 的 軟 體 （ 例 如 ： DJUCED® ） ， 並 選 取
  DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) 驅動程式：




在軟體開始使用 ASIO 驅動程式後，即無法再在控制台中
修改 ASIO 設定。這很正常，表明 ASIO 驅動程式正在使
用中。




                    79
使用您的軟體並仔細聆聽音訊是否存在任何可能的故障或
雜音（擊鍵聲、爆裂聲）或是否存在任何延遲問題。如果
出現故障或雜音，您將需要增大緩衝區大小，以解決問題。


關閉軟體，並調節 ASIO 緩衝區，每次調節一個值：

  − 減小緩衝區大小以降低延遲。

  − 如果發現音訊出現故障或雜音，則增加緩衝區大小。


您需要重複此程式，直到發現系統的最佳緩衝區大小。


此處可下載驅動程式：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                        80
韌體更新

您的 DJ 打碟機配備自動韌體更新模式。要使用此模式，
需要安裝 Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）驅動程式並按照螢幕上的
說明進行操作。然後，韌體更新即會自動進行。


此處可下載驅動程式：
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


您還可以透過控制台存取此資訊，並在「ABOUT」（關
於）標籤中檢視您的電腦上安裝的驅動程式版本。如果您
需要連絡 Hercules（嗨 酷 樂）技術支援，請準備好提供
該資訊。




                        81
在控制台中測試 DJ 打碟機

在 DJControl Inpulse T7 控制台的 ABOUT（關於）部分，
您可以測試 DJ 打碟機的聲音、MIDI 控制項和燈光以及電
動緩動盤。


要 存 取 控 制 面 板 ， 請 進 入 以 下 目 錄 ： C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\。



      音訊測試

要測試 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機的音訊介面是否發出
聲音（在不使用 DJ 軟體的情況下執行此測試），請按一
下揚聲器圖示。該圖示在測試期間會變為綠色，該程式會
在連接揚聲器和耳機的 Master 輸出上播放聲音。




                      82
    MIDI 控制項測試

要測試 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機的 MIDI 控制項是否
正常工作（在不使用 DJ 軟體的情況下執行此測試），請
嘗試使用這些按鈕或者您希望測試的其他控制項。如果
DIN 接頭圖示變為綠色，這意味著正在接收 MIDI 命令，
該按鈕或其他控制項正常工作。




                   83
    燈光測試

要測試 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機的 LED 是否正常發
光（在不使用 DJ 軟體的情況下執行此測試），請按一下
燈泡圖示以點亮打碟機的 LED。該圖示在測試期間會變
為綠色，打碟機的 LED 會點亮。




您也可以透過同時按兩個轉盤上的 IN 和 OUT 按鈕來點
亮 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機的所有 LED。




                   84
 4. 電動緩動盤測試

要測試 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機的電動緩動盤是否正
常工作（在不使用 DJ 軟體的情況下執行此測試），請按
一下緩動盤 1 或 2 的圖示。對應緩動盤和 DIN 接頭的圖
示在測試期間會變為綠色，電動緩動盤會在打碟機上運動
（例如轉動）。


測試 1 號電動緩動盤：




測試 2 號電動緩動盤：




                 85
 8.   演示模式

將 DJ 打碟機連接到電源和 USB 電源時（但不連接電
腦），即可使用此模式，此模式尤多用於店內展示。在此
情況下，本 DJ 打碟機將無法正常工作，而是處於演示模
式，演示序列將點亮打碟機的不同指示燈，並一直重複運
作。




             86
 9.    常見問題解答

 1.    我的耳機不出聲。

請確保已將耳機連接到 DJ 打碟機的正面，您的 DJ 打碟
機配有多聲道音效卡且此音效卡已預設定為搭配
DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 使用。
預設情況下，首次啟動軟體時將啟用 2 個監聽按鈕。然後，
您可以選取要在耳機上監聽的轉盤，或者使用 MASTER
音量計下方的         按鈕監聽您的混音效果。




                     87
 2.   我的耳機上的聲音失真或太小。

確 保 您 的 耳 機 帶 有 TRS 接 頭 （ 標 準 耳 機 ） ， 而 不 是
TRRS 接頭（耳機 + 麥克風）。


         針頭                   針頭
         圓環                   圓環
                              圓環
         套筒
                              套筒




TRRS 接頭不相容於 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機。




                    88
 3.   我的揚聲器不出聲。

請確保已將揚聲器連接到 DJ 打碟機背面的 RCA 或 XLR
接頭，您的 DJ 打碟機配有多聲道音效卡且此音效卡已預
設定為搭配 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 使用。


為 了 （ 在 不 使 用 DJ 軟 體 的 條 件 下 ） 測 試 DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟機的音訊介面是否能發出聲音，您可以顯
示 DJ 打碟機的控制台。按一下 ABOUT（關於）索引標
籤，然後按一下音箱圖示。當發出聲音時，該圖示會變為
綠色。




                     89
4.     我的筆記型電腦音箱不出聲。

您的 DJ 打碟機配備預先設定的多聲道音效卡。如果您希
望使用筆記型電腦內建的揚聲器，請：

 − 在 DJUCED® 中，存取設定並勾選（將主信號傳送到
     電腦揚聲器）選項。




 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，存取設定，開啟 Audio（音訊）
     索引標籤並勾選 Use Laptop Speakers（使用筆記型
     電腦揚聲器）選項。




                   90
5. 我的耳機或筆記型電腦音箱不出聲。

預設情況下，聲音來自 Master 輸出（用於連接揚聲器）
和耳機輸出。因此，您的筆記型電腦揚聲器不出聲是正常
的。


如果您希望使用筆記型電腦內建的揚聲器，請：

 − 在 DJUCED® 中，存取設定並勾選（將主信號傳送到
     電腦揚聲器）選項。您必須將耳機連接到 DJControl
     Inpulse T7 打碟機。




                       91
 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，存取設定，開啟 Audio（音訊）
   索引標籤並勾選 Use Laptop Speakers（使用筆記型
   電腦揚聲器）選項。您必須將耳機連接到 DJControl
   Inpulse T7 打碟機。




為 了 （ 在 不 使 用 DJ 軟 體 的 條 件 下 ） 測 試 DJControl
Inpulse T7 打碟機的音訊介面是否能發出聲音，您可以顯
示 DJ 打碟機的控制台。按一下 ABOUT（關於）索引標
籤，然後按一下音箱圖示。當發出聲音時，該圖示會變為
綠色。




                     92
 6.   我使用 Windows® 時遇到音質問題。

當前播放曲目的音量太低

DJ 軟體的主音量與 DJ 打碟機上的音量控制無關。因此，
只要 DJ 軟體的主音量很小，Master 輸出的音量也會很小。


檢查 DJ 軟體的音量，如有必要，增大該音量。


 − 在 DJUCED 中，使用視窗右上角工作列中的音量按
  鈕。




 − 在 Serato DJ Lite 中，使用視窗右上角工作列中的音
  量按鈕。




                93
我的耳機上的聲音太小。

在 Serato DJ Lite 中，存取設定，開啟 Audio（音訊）索
引標籤並清除（即取消選中）Use Laptop Speakers（使
用筆記型電腦揚聲器）選項。




                 94
如果您需要保持勾選（即選中）Use Laptop Speakers
（使用筆記型電腦揚聲器），則將電腦的內建音效卡設定
為「電腦揚聲器」：
 1. 關閉 Serato DJ Lite 軟體。

 2. 存取 Windows 設定並依次進入 System (系統) 和
  Sound (聲音)。
 3. 在 Output (輸出) 下，選取電腦的內建音效卡。您的
  DJ 打碟機不能再被設定為輸出。




Windows® 可能已將您的 DJ 打碟機設定為 Windows® 音
效卡。如果您保留此設定，Use Laptop Speakers (使用
筆記型電腦揚聲器) 設定可在 DJ 打碟機的 4 聲道輸出
（Master 輸出 + 耳機）上播放 Master 輸出。




                     95
聲音不清楚

在 DJUCED® 中：
我們建議您使用 ASIO 音訊裝置。使用 WASAPI 裝置時，
音質通常不錯。然而，延遲可能會增加，導致聲音可能不
清楚。


存 取 設 定 ， 按 一 下 Audio ( 音 訊 ) 索 引 標 籤 並 選 取
DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) 作為 Audio device
(音訊裝置)。




在 Serato DJ Lite 中：
存取設定，開啟 Audio（音訊）索引標籤並清除（即取消
選中）Use Laptop Speakers（使用筆記型電腦揚聲器）
選項。




                      96
 7.      我無法將我的多媒體揚聲器連接到
   DJControl Inpulse T7。

如果您的音箱介面與 DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機上的介
面不同，您可以使用一個雙 RCA 轉 3.5 毫米迷你插孔轉
接頭（未附帶）連接多媒體音箱，或者使用一個 XLR 轉
6.35 mm 插孔轉接頭（未附帶）連接 PA 音箱，或者採用
您的音箱所適用的任何其他形式轉接頭。
您也可以將揚聲器連接到耳機輸出上並透過按下
MASTER 音量計下方的       按鈕將輸出 1-2 複製到輸出
3-4 上。



 8.      DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機是否
   相容於 iPad 或 iPhone？

不相容，DJControl Inpulse T7 打碟機不相容於 iPad 或
iPhone。它僅支援 PC 或 Mac。




                  97
 9.   我如何將 DJControl Inpulse T7 打
   碟機連接到 USB-C 埠或 Thunderbolt
   3 埠？

您可以使用以下三種不同的方式將 DJControl Inpulse T7
打碟機連接到 USB-C 埠或 Thunderbolt 3 埠：

 − 透過在電腦和 DJ 打碟機之間使用轉接頭（USB-C
   [公接頭] 或 Thunderbolt 3 轉 USB-A [母接頭]）。請
   注意，有些低成本的轉接頭可能無法正常工作，因為
   它們切除了電源的一部分電路。

 − 透過在電腦和 DJ 打碟機之間使用擴展塢（USB-C 或
   Thunderbolt 3）。確保該擴展塢帶有專用電源，因為
   只透過 USB-C 或 Thunderbolt 3 埠供電的擴展塢可
   能沒有足夠的電力。

 − 透 過 將 隨 附 的 USB 連 接 線 替 換 為 USB-C 或
   Thunderbolt 3 轉 USB-B 2.0 連接線。




                     98
         技術支援

https://support.hercules.com




            99
商標
Intel® 和 Intel Core™ 是 Intel Corporation 的商標或註冊商標。
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 是 Microsoft Corporation 在美國和/或其他國
家/地區的註冊商標或商標。
Mac® 和 macOS® 是 Apple Inc. 在美國和其他國家/地區註冊的商標。
Serato、Serato DJ Lite 和 Serato DJ Pro 是 Serato Audio Research
Limited 的註冊商標。

DJUCED 品牌和 DJUCED 的圖形元素是 Guillemot Corporation（基利
摩股份有限公司）的資產。
ASIO 是 Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH 的商標。
特此確認，本文檔中的所有其他商標和商品名稱均為其各自所有者的資產。
插圖不具約束力。本文件中的內容、設計和規格可能因國家而異，並可能
隨時出現變更，恕不另行通知。




                            100
版權聲明
未經 Guillemot Corporation S.A.（基利摩股份有限公司）明確書面同意，
不得以任何形式或利用電子、機械、電磁、手工抄寫、影印、錄製或其他
任何方式複製、摘錄、傳播、轉錄本手冊的任何部分，或將其儲存在檢索
系統中或翻譯成任何語言或電腦語言。




                      101
DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 使用者授
權合約
請仔細閱讀安裝 DJUCED® 和 Serato DJ Lite 時顯示的授權合約。




                     102
사용설명서
                                 목차
1.   박스 내용물..................................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   기술 사양 ...................................................... 10

3.   기능 .............................................................. 13

     개요 ...................................................................13

     데크 ...................................................................14

     믹싱 ...................................................................32

     커넥터 ...............................................................43

4.   설치 .............................................................. 46

     연결 ...................................................................46

     소프트웨어 다운로드 .......................................49

5.   믹싱을 생생하게 만들기 ............................... 54

     모드 및 패드......................................................54

     스크래칭 ...........................................................70

     필터 ...................................................................71
6.   다중 채널 사운드 카드 .................................. 72

     스피커용 Master 출력(출력 1-2) .....................73

     헤드폰 출력(출력 3-4) ......................................74

     마이크 입력.......................................................76

7.   호환성 ........................................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO 및 Windows® 컨트롤 패널 ....................78

     펌웨어 업데이트 ...............................................81

     제어판에서 DJ 컨트롤러 테스트하기 .............82

8.   데모 모드 ...................................................... 86

9.   FAQ .............................................................. 87




                                   3
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 은 모든 기능을 갖춘 컨트롤러로,
두 개의 전동식 플래터, 동영상 튜토리얼, DJUCED 및 Serato
DJ Lite 소프트웨어와의 통합을 지원하여 바이닐 턴테이블
기술을 마스터할 수 있도록 고안된 제품입니다.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 에는 Serato DJ Pro 용
라이선스가 아닌 Serato DJ Lite 용 라이선스가 포함되어
있습니다.
Serato DJ Lite 는 기간 제한 없이 이용할 수 있습니다.
Serato DJ Lite 대신 Serato DJ Pro 를 설치하는 경우 Serato
DJ Pro 가 무료 체험 기간 동안 DJControl Inpulse T7 과 함께
작동합니다. 이 무료 체험 기간이 끝난 후에도 Serato DJ
Pro 를 계속 사용하고 싶은 경우에는 Serato DJ Pro
라이선스를 구입해야 합니다.




                       4
Hercules    DJControl   Inpulse T7   컨트롤러를   사용하여
믹싱하는 방법을 배울 수 있는 다양한 동영상 튜토리얼을
제공합니다.
  − Hercules DJ Academy(영어):
           o DJUCED에서       아이콘을 클릭합니다.
           o DJUCED 웹사이트.
  − Hercules Audio YouTube 채널(영어)
  − The DJ Coach, DJ HAPA 의 Serato DJ Lite 강의
    포함(영어).




                            5
 1.    박스 내용물

DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − 바이닐 레코드 2 개(7 인치/17.8cm)
 − 펠트 슬립매트 2 개
 − USB 꼰 케이블
 − 탈착식 전원 케이블
 − 전원 어댑터
 − 사용 매뉴얼
 − 품질 보증서 전단




                           6
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 VU 미터를 감싸고
있는 보호 필름을 제거할 수 있습니다. VU 미터를 사용하는
데는 아무런 영향을 미치지 않으므로 보호 필름을 그대로
유지할 수도 있습니다.




                      7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − 바이닐 레코드 2 개(7 인치/17.8cm)
 − 펠트 슬립매트 2 개
 − 얇은 펠트 슬립매트 2 개
 − USB 꼰 케이블
 − 탈착식 전원 케이블
 − 전원 어댑터
 − 휴대용 가방
 − 사용 매뉴얼
 − 품질 보증서 전단




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition 컨트롤러의
VU 미터를 감싸고 있는 보호 필름을 제거할 수 있습니다. VU
미터를 사용하는 데는 아무런 영향을 미치지 않으므로 보호
필름을 그대로 유지할 수도 있습니다.




                           9
 2.    기술 사양
시스템 요구 사항:
 − DJUCED:    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
   (영어)
 − Serato DJ Lite:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemrequireme
   nts#system-requirements (영어)


오디오 출력:
          o 해상도 = 24 비트
          o 샘플 속도 = 44.1kHz


다음을 통한 스피커 Master 출력(출력 1-2):
 − RCA 커넥터 2 개:
          o 최대 출력 전력 = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
 − XLR 커넥터 2 개(밸런스드):
          o 최대 출력 전력 = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


3.5mm 스테레오 미니 잭 커넥터 1 개와 6.35mm 스테레오 잭
커넥터 1 개를 통한 헤드폰 출력(출력 3-4):
          o 최대 출력 전력 = 5 dBU(32 Ω @ 1 kHz 의 경우)


6.35mm 잭 커넥터(밸런스드) 1 개를 통한 마이크 입력




                         10
              전원 공급
− 사용 설명서에 표시된 전원 공급 장치만 사용하십시오.
− 전원 공급 장치의 명판에 표시된 네트워크 전압과 주파수를
 가진 전원 공급 장치만 사용하십시오.




               11
             전원 공급에 관한 정보
  게시된 정보                      값               단위
 제조사 이름 또는      GUILLEMOT CORPORATION S.A.
  트레이드마크          414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
   사업 번호            2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
     주소                56910 Carentoir
                            프랑스
  모델 식별자               A481-1852590D
   입력 전압                   100 - 240           V
 입력 AC 주파수                  50 - 60           Hz
   출력 전압                     18.5             V DC
   출력 전류                      2.6              A
   출력 전력                     47.9              W
 평균 동작 효율                    87.8              %
낮은 부하(10%) 효율                87.8              %
무부하시 소비 전력                   0.10              W




                      12
3.     기능

개요




1.   전동식 플래터
2.   전송 버튼(Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
3.   루프 컨트롤(Loop)
4.   트랙 선택 컨트롤(Browser, Load, Assist./Prep.)
5.   템포 페이더(Pitch fader)
6.   패드 및 모드
7.   재생 모드
8.   모니터링, 볼륨(Master, 헤드폰 및 마이크) 및 Beatmatch
     Guide
9.   믹싱 섹션(Gain, EQ, Filter)
10. 믹서(크로스페이더, 볼륨 페이더)
11. 효과




                         13
데크

 1. 전동식 플래터




펠트   슬립매트: 전동식 플래터와    바이닐   레코드   사이에
위치합니다. 플래터와 마찰될 때 바이닐 레코드가 손상되지
않도록 보호하며 레코드 재생 시 진동을 줄여줍니다.




반드시 바이닐 레코드를 설치하기 전에 전동식 플래터의 펠트
슬립매트를 장착해야 합니다.




                  14
바이닐 레코드: 스크래칭하거나 재생 속도를 높이거나 늦추고,
트랙 내에서 이동할 수 있습니다.
바이닐 레코드 라벨의 선은 믹싱 및 스크래칭을 위한 참조
지점(즉, 마커)입니다.


수행되는 작업은 다음과 두 가지 기준에 따라 결정됩니다.
 − 트랙 재생 또는 일시 중지됨,
 − 바이닐 레코드를 조작하고 있는 지점(상단(top) 또는
   링(ring)).


                 상단




        링




                 15
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 로 바이닐 레코드 작동:



  재생/일시 정지          전동식 플래터           SHIFT 버튼

      재생                상단                 -

                      스크래칭

      재생               상단/링           길게 누르기

                트랙 내에서 빠르게 이동

      재생                 링                 -

               재생 속도를 높이거나 늦춤

    일시 정지              상단/링                -

                트랙 내에서 느리게 이동

    일시 정지              상단/링           길게 누르기

                트랙 내에서 빠르게 이동




                        16
DJUCED로 바이닐 레코드 작동:



  재생/일시 정지      전동식 플래터       SHIFT 버튼

     재생           상단             -

                 스크래칭

     재생           상단/링        길게 누르기

             트랙 내에서 빠르게 이동

     재생            링             -

             재생 속도를 높이거나 늦춤

   일시 정지           링             -

             트랙 내에서 느리게 이동




                  17
전동식 플래터: 템포 페이더로 설정된 템포에 따라 트랙의
속도와 재생을 컨트롤하는 바이닐 레코드를 구동합니다.


Beatmatch Guide 기능이 활성화되어 있으면, BEAT ALIGN 시각
가이드가 두 개 트랙의 비트 그리드를 정렬하기 위해 전동식
플래터의 링(즉, 가장자리)을 돌려야 하는 방향을 나타냅니다. 두
개의 빨간색 화살표에 불이 들어오지 않으면 비트 그리드가
정렬된 것입니다.


Beatmatch Guide 기능에 대한 자세한 정보는 Beatmatch Guide
섹션을 읽으십시오.




플래터의 전동을 비활성화할 수 없습니다.




  - 전동식 플래터가 돌아갈 때 손으로 플래터를 잡은 채로
    장시간 정지 상태를 유지하는 것을 방지하여 드라이브
    시스템이 손상되지 않도록 하십시오.
  - 바이닐 레코드 자동 플래터 위에 놓을 때 힘을 주지
    마십시오. 바이닐 레코드의 가운데 부분이 손상될
    위험이 있습니다.




                     18
 2. 전송 버튼




SHIFT: 컨트롤 기능 조합 예:
 − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): 트랙의 뮤지컬 키를
   잠급니다.
 − SHIFT + IN: DJUCED®에서 활성화된 루프의 크기를 2 로
   나눕니다.


SYNC: 두 트랙의 BPM(분당 비트 수) 값을 자동 동기화하거나
비활성화합니다.
 − SHIFT + SYNC:
    o DJUCED에서: 데크를 마스터 동기화(Master Sync)
      데크로 만듭니다.
    o Serato   DJ   Lite        에서:   데크에서   동기화를
      비활성화합니다.




                           19
CUE: 트랙에 Cue 포인트를 삽입하여 특정 순간을 식별하거나,
데크 플레이헤드를 Cue 포인트의 위치로 이동합니다.
 − 트랙 일시 정지됨: 트랙이 중지된 곳에서 Cue 포인트를
   삽입합니다.
 − 트랙 재생 중: 트랙 재생을 중지하고 데크 플레이헤드를
   Cue 포인트로 이동합니다.
    o DJUCED에서는 Cue 포인트가 정의되지 않은 경우
      CUE 를 누르면 재생이 중지되고 플레이헤드의 위치에
      Cue 포인트가 배치됩니다.
    o Serato DJ Lite 에서는 Cue 포인트가 정의되지 않은
      경우 CUE 를 누르면 재생이 중지되고 트랙의 시작
      지점에 Cue 포인트가 배치됩니다.
 − CUE + PLAY: 플레이헤드를 Cue 포인트로 이동하고 그
   포인트에서 트랙을 재생합니다.
 − SHIFT + CUE:
    o DJUCED에서:   트랙의     시작으로     플레이헤드를
      이동하고 재생을 중지합니다.
    o Serato DJ Lite 에서: 트랙의 시작으로 플레이헤드를
      이동하고 재생을 시작합니다.


재생/일시 정지: 트랙을 재생하거나 일시 정지합니다.
 − SHIFT + PLAY: Serato DJ Lite 에서는 플레이헤드를 Cue
   포인트로 이동하고 이 마커에서 트랙을 재생합니다.




                     20
 3. 루프 컨트롤




AUTOLOOP 인코더:
 − 인코더를    누르면    루프의   재생을    활성화      또는
   비활성화합니다.
 − 인코더를 돌리면 루프의 길이를 조정합니다.


IN/OUT: 시작 지점(IN)과 끝 지점(OUT)을 선택하여 루프를
활성화합니다.
루프가 활성화되어 있을 때(즉, 사용 가능할 때):
  − 루프의 시작을 이동하려면 IN(버튼이 깜빡임)을 누르고
   전동식 플래터를 돌립니다.
  − 루프의 끝을 이동하려면 OUT(버튼이 깜빡임)을 누르고
   전동식 플래터를 돌립니다.
루프를 종료하려면 AUTOLOOP 인코더를 누릅니다.
DJUCED®:
 − SHIFT + IN: 활성화된 루프의 크기를 2 로 나눕니다.
 − SHIFT + OUT: 활성화된 루프의 크기를 2 배로 늘립니다.
 − IN 을 길게 누름: 네 개의 비트 루프를 활성화합니다.




                   21
 4. 트랙 선택 컨트롤




BROWSER 인코더*: 인코더를 왼쪽(위) 또는 오른쪽(아래)으로
돌려 음악 라이브러리와 트랙 목록을 살펴볼 수 있습니다.
인코더를 눌러 폴더를 선택하고 선택한 트랙을 목적 데크에
불러옵니다.


조명이 들어오는 링:
 − DJUCED에서는, 템포에 대한 마스터 트랙의 에너지
   레벨을 보여줍니다.
 − Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 리듬을 보여줍니다. 불빛이 트랙의
   비트에 맞게 깜박입니다.
         o 빨간색: 첫 번째 비트를 나타냅니다.
         o 파란색: 다음 세 개 비트를 나타냅니다.




                   22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − DJUCED에서는, 믹싱에 가장 잘 맞는 다음 트랙을
    제안하는 패널을 표시합니다.
    제안된 트랙 목록 내에서 이동하려면 BROWSER 인코더를
    돌립니다.
    트랙을 선택하려면 BROWSER 인코더를 누릅니다. 이
    데크에 이미 불러온 트랙을 반드시 중지해야 합니다.
    ASSIST./PREP.을 누르고 인코더를 돌려 제안된 트랙의
    에너지 수준을 조절합니다.
  − Serato   DJ   Lite   에서는,   현재   재생   중인   트랙을
    Prepare(준비) 목록에 추가합니다.
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: Prepare(준비) 패널을 엽니다.


BACK*: DJUCED와 Serato DJ Lite 에서 트리 구조 간 이동할
수 있습니다.
  − DJUCED에서 라이브러리 열로 되돌아가려면 SHIFT 와
    BACK 을 누릅니다.




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                           23
 5. 템포 페이더




템포   페이더: BPM 수를 조정하여 트랙의 재생 속도를
설정합니다.
 − 위로 이동: 트랙의 속도를 늦춥니다.
 − 아래로 이동: 트랙의 속도를 높입니다.
 − 중간에 있는 템포 페이더: 트랙의 원래 속도입니다. 흰색
     LED 에 불이 들어옵니다.


Beatmatch Guide 기능이 활성화되어 있으면, TEMPO 비주얼
가이드가 트랙 속도를 늦추거나 높이기 위해 템포 페이더를 위
또는 아래로 이동해야 하는지 여부를 나타냅니다. 두 개의
빨간색 화살표가 꺼져 있을 때, 데크의 템포는 다른 데크의
템포와 동일합니다.


Beatmatch Guide 기능에 대한 자세한 정보는 Beatmatch Guide
섹션을 읽으십시오.
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는 SYNC 모드가
활성화되어 있을 때, SHIFT 를 누르고 템포 페이더를 동시에
움직이면 진폭을 유지하면서 템포 페이더의 값을 옮길 수
있습니다.

                       24
예를   들어,   ±8%   또는   16%   진폭의   템포   스케일로는
0%(최대)에서 -16%(최소)까지 포함하도록 템포 페이더의 값을
이동할 수 있으며, 이렇게 해도 진폭은 여전히 16%가 되며
중앙에서 -8%입니다.




                      25
RANGE*: 템포 페이더의 템포 스케일을 변경할 수 있습니다.
 − DJUCED에서: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
   ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
 − Serato DJ Lite 에서: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): 트랙의 뮤지컬 키를 잠급니다.
뮤지컬 키가 잠금 상태인지 확인하려면 SHIFT 를 누릅니다.
RANGE 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다.




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                           26
 6. 패드 및 모드




모드 버튼: 최대 8 개 모드를 활성화할 수 있습니다.
메인 모드를 활성화하려면 HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3
또는 SAMPLER 4 를 누릅니다.
보조 모드(MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7 및 MODE 8)를
활성화하려면, SHIFT 와 HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 또는
SAMPLER 4 를 동시에 누릅니다. 모드 버튼이 깜박입니다.
패드에서 활성화된 모드는 사용 중인 소프트웨어에 따라
다릅니다.


DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite, Serato DJ Pro 의 다양한 모드에
대한 자세한 내용은 모드 및 패드 섹션을 읽어보십시오.


퍼포먼스 패드: 패드가 동작을 수행합니다.




                      27
 7. 재생 모드




INSTRUMENTAL: 트랙의 멜로디, 베이스, 드럼 파트만 재생할
수 있습니다. Stems 모드의 단축키입니다.
 − 트랙의   멜로디,     베이스,   드럼   파트만       재생하려면
   INSTRUMENTAL   버튼을      누릅니다.   버튼에    불이
   들어옵니다.
 − 트랙의 모든 파트(보컬, 멜로디, 베이스, 드럼)를 다시
   재생하려면    INSTRUMENTAL    버튼을    다시   누릅니다.
   버튼의 불이 꺼집니다.




                    28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: Slip 모드를 활성화합니다. Slip
모드에서 데크 플레이헤드는 이펙트 또는 루프를 적용할 때, Cue
포인트를 배치할 때, 전동식 플래터를 사용할 때 백그라운드에서
계속   실행됩니다.    이펙트    적용을    중지하면   트랙이   계속
재생되었을 포인트에서부터 시작합니다.
Slip 모드가 활성화되어 있는지 확인하려면 SHIFT 를 누릅니다.
INSTRUMENTAL 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다.




Serato DJ Lite 에는 Slip 모드가 없습니다.
Serato DJ Pro 에는 Slip 모드가 있습니다.




                      29
VOCAL: 트랙의 보컬 파트만 재생할 수 있습니다. Stems 모드의
단축키입니다.
 − 트랙의 보컬 파트만 재생하려면 VOCAL 버튼을 누릅니다.
   버튼에 불이 들어옵니다.
 − 트랙의 모든 파트(보컬, 멜로디, 베이스, 드럼)를 다시
   재생하려면 VOCAL 버튼을 다시 누릅니다. 버튼의 불이
   꺼집니다.


SHIFT + VOCAL: 퀀타이즈 모드를 활성화합니다. 퀀타이즈를
사용하면 그리드에 있는 다음 비트에 동작을 적용할 수
있습니다(트랙 재생, Cue 포인트 배치, 루프 시작...).
퀀타이즈 모드가 활성화되어 있는지 확인하려면 SHIFT 를
누릅니다. VOCAL 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다.




Serato DJ Lite 에는 퀀타이즈 모드가 없습니다.
Serato DJ Pro 에는 퀀타이즈 모드가 있습니다.




                    30
     (pitch bend -) /   (pitch bend +): 현재 데크에서
재생되고 있는 트랙의 비트 그리드를 다른 데크의 비트 그리드에
맞춰 수동으로 조정할 수 있습니다.
 −        버튼을 길게 눌러 데크의 속도를 잠시 늦춥니다.
 −        버튼을 길게 눌러 데크의 속도를 잠시 높입니다.




Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서 SHIFT +   및
SHIFT +       버튼을 누르면 특정 모드의 설정을 조정할 수
있습니다(설정).




                        31
믹싱

 8. 모니터링, 볼륨, Beatmatch Guide




MIC 볼륨: 마이크 볼륨을 조정합니다.


MIC 조명 링: 오디오 신호의 레벨을 나타냅니다(VU 미터).
 − 꺼짐: 오디오 신호가 없습니다.
 − 초록색: 오디오 신호가 재생되고 있습니다.
 − 빨간색: 오디오 신호가 포화 상태입니다.


MASTER 볼륨: 스피커에서 재생되는 믹스의 볼륨을 조정합니다.


MASTER VU 미터: 스피커 Master 출력의 오디오 신호(RCA
또는 XLR) 레벨을 표시합니다.




                     32
HEADPHONES 볼륨:
 −      /     : 헤드폰에 재생되고 있는 신호를 조정하고 Cue
     출력(데크 1 및 2 모니터링)과 Mix 출력(Master 출력)을
     믹싱합니다.
      o 모니터링만 들으려면 데크 1 및 2 의 모니터링 버튼을
        누릅니다. 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다. 다음으로 노브를
        Cue 로 설정합니다.
      o Master 출력만 들으려면 Master 모니터링 버튼을
        누릅니다. 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다. 다음으로 노브를
        Mix 로 조정하여 헤드폰에 재생되고 있는 믹스를
        조정합니다.
 −          : 헤드폰 출력의 볼륨을 조정합니다.




                       33
모니터링: 헤드폰에서 재생되는 사운드 소스를 선택합니다.
  −      ( MASTER VU 미터 아래에 위치): 관중이 들을 수
      있게 재생되고 있는 믹스 소리를 재생합니다.
  −       *(BEATMATCH   GUIDE   버튼의   양쪽에   위치):
      Cue/Mix 버튼이 Cue 로 설정되었을 때 데크 1 또는 데크
      2 의 사운드를 재생합니다.
Serato DJ Lite 에서는 SHIFT 와      *(BEATMATCH GUIDE
버튼 옆에 위치) 버튼을 눌러 현재 데크에서 재생되고 있는
트랙의 비트 그리드를 수정합니다. 비트 그리드 편집 모드를
종료하려면 Edit Grid(그리드 편집)를 클릭합니다.




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                        34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: 템포를 조정하고 두 개 트랙의 비트
그리드를 정렬할 수 있도록 라이트 가이드를 활성화하거나
비활성화합니다. 데크당 빨간색 화살표가 4 개 있습니다.




DJUCED®는   데크   중        하나를      마스터
동기화(Master Sync) 데크로, 다른 하나를 슬레이브 데크로
정의합니다. 이 데크는 마스터 동기화 데크의 템포를 따르므로
슬레이브 데크의 빨간색 화살표에만 불이 들어옵니다.
Serato DJ Lite 는 마스터 동기화 데크를 정의하지 않습니다.
두 데크 모두의 빨간색 화살표에 불이 들어옵니다.




                    35
− TEMPO 비주얼 가이드: 템포 페이더의 오른쪽에 위치한 두
 개의 빨간색 화살표 중 하나에 불이 들어오면, 이는
 데크에서 재생되고 있는 트랙의 템포(즉, 분당 비트)가 다른
 데크의 템포와 다르다는 의미입니다.
 이 화살표들은 다른 데크의 템포와 일치시킬 수 있도록
 재생 중인 트랙의 템포를 조정하기 위해 템포 페이더를
 이동해야 하는 방향을 나타냅니다.
     o 상단 화살표에 불이 들어옴: 템포 페이더를 위로
       이동합니다. 이렇게 하면 템포가 느려집니다.
     o 하단 화살표에 불이 들어옴: 템포 페이더를
       아래로   이동합니다.   이렇게   하면   템포가
       빨라집니다.
     o 화살표에 불이 들어오지 않음: 데크의 템포가
       마스터 동기화 데크의 템포와 동일합니다.




                36
− BEAT ALIGN 비주얼 가이드: 전동식 플래터 아래에 위치한
 두 개의 빨간색 화살표 중 하나에 불이 들어오면, 이는
 데크에서 재생되고 있는 트랙의 비트가 다른 데크의 비트와
 일치하지 않는다는 의미입니다.
 이 화살표들은 다른 데크의 비트와 재생 중인 트랙의
 비트를 일치시키기 위해 전동식 플래터를 돌려야 하는
 방향을 나타냅니다.
      o 왼쪽 화살표에 불이 들어옴: 전동식 플래터를
       시계 방향으로 돌립니다. 이렇게 하면 재생
       속도가 빨라집니다.
      o 오른쪽 화살표에 불이 들어옴: 전동식 플래터를
       시계 반대 방향으로 돌립니다. 이렇게 하면 재생
       속도가 느려집니다.
      o 화살표에 불이 들어오지 않음: 데크의 비트가
       다른 데크의 비트와 일치합니다.




                37
 9. 믹싱 섹션




GAIN 노브*: 게인(즉, 볼륨 페이더 앞에 있는 볼륨 레벨)을
조정합니다.


3-밴드 이퀄라이저(EQ)*: EQ 의 강도를 컨트롤합니다. 노브는
다음과 같은 각 밴드와 연관되어 있습니다. HIGH, MID, LOW.


FILTER 노브*: 듀얼 필터의 주파수를 조정합니다(하이패스 및
로우패스).




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                   38
 10.   믹서




VU 미터: 데크 1 및 데크 2 의 오디오 레벨을 표시합니다.

볼륨 페이더*: 데크의 볼륨을 조정합니다.


크로스페이더: 데크 중 하나의 볼륨을 높이면서 다른 데크의
볼륨을 줄여 두 트랙 사이를 트랜지션할 수 있게 합니다.
 − 크로스페이더를 왼쪽 끝까지 이동: 데크 1 에서만 트랙이
     들립니다.
 − 크로스페이더를 오른쪽 끝까지 이동: 데크 2 에서만 트랙이
     들립니다.
 − 크로스페이더를 중간에 놓음: 데크 1 과 데크 2 모두에서
     동시에 트랙이 들립니다.
커브 스위치: 크로스페이더 커브를 수정할 수 있습니다.
 −     (mix): 두 데크를 프로그레시브 믹싱합니다.
 −     (scratch): 두 데크를 매우 빠르게 믹싱합니다.



                     39
 −     (비활성화됨): 크로스페이더를 비활성화하고 볼륨
     페이더만 사용해 믹싱합니다.




Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는 크로스페이더 설정을
수정할 수 있습니다. 설정 메뉴의 Mixer 로 이동합니다.
− Power(파워): 스크래칭용 빠른 커브.
− Linear(리니어): 믹싱용 프로그레시브 커브.
− Reverse(리버스): 크로스페이더의 방향을 반대로 전환하며
  “Hamster” 모드로도 알려져 있습니다.




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                     40
  11.         효과




이펙트 랙을 표시하는 방법:
  − DJUCED에서:                 를 클릭합니다.
  − Serato DJ Lite 에서:             를 클릭합니다.


이펙트 버튼             /   /       *: 이펙트 랙에서 이펙트를 선택할 수
있습니다. 버튼에 불이 들어옵니다.
이펙트를 활성화하려면 퍼포먼스 레버를 사용합니다.
  /       /    버튼과 관련된 이펙트를 수정하려면 이펙트 랙에서
새 이펙트를 선택합니다. Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ
Pro 에서는 SHIFT 와            ,       또는    버튼을 눌러 이펙트 목록을
표시하고 SHIFT 와                   ,   또는     버튼을 다시 눌러 목록
내에서 이동하고 새로운 이펙트를 선택할 수 있습니다.




Serato DJ Lite 에서:
− 여러 개의 이펙트를 동시에 결합할 수 있습니다.
− 좌측에 있는 세 개의 이펙트                          /   /   는 왼쪽
  데크(데크 1)에 적용되며 우측에 있는 세 개의 이펙트                      /
      /       는 오른쪽 데크(데크 2)에 적용됩니다.
Serato DJ Pro 에서는 세 가지 이펙트 버튼으로 구성된 두
그룹이 두 개의 가상 데크에 적용됩니다.
                                    41
퍼포먼스 레버*:      ,    또는     버튼에 불러온 이펙트를
활성화할 수 있습니다. 위치는 세 가지입니다.
 − HOLD: 레버가 이 위치에 있는 동안 이펙트를 계속
     활성화합니다.
 − ON:   레버가   이   위치에    있는   동안   이펙트를   잠시
     활성화합니다.
 − 중앙 위치: 이펙트가 비활성화됩니다.


DEPTH 노브: 이펙트의 강도를 조정합니다.


 /   버튼: 음악과 동기화된 이펙트 주기의 기간을 조정합니다.




DJUCED에는 이 기능이 포함되어 있지 않습니다.




*이 기능은 데크 1 및 2 에서 동일합니다.




                     42
커넥터




 12.    스피커용 Master 출력(출력 1-2)
 13.    밸런스드 마이크 입력
 14.    USB-B 2.0 포트
 15.    POWER 버튼
 16.    전원 어댑터 커넥터
 17.    헤드폰 출력(출력 3-4)


스피커용 Master 출력(출력 1-2): 활성화된 스피커를 연결할 수
있습니다.
형식: 2 x 언밸런스드 RCA(Cinch) 및 2 x 밸런스드 XLR.


밸런스드 마이크 입력: 밸런스드 또는 언밸런스드 마이크를
연결할 수 있습니다.
형식: 6.35mm 잭.


USB-B 2.0 포트: 컨트롤러를 컴퓨터에 연결할 수 있습니다.


전원 버튼: DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 전원을 켜고 끌 수
있습니다.

                       43
전원 어댑터 커넥터: 전원 케이블을 연결하고 어댑터를 사용하여
DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를 콘센트에 꽂을 수 있습니다.


헤드폰 출력(출력 3-4): 트랙을 모니터하기 위해 헤드폰을
연결할 수 있습니다.
형식: 3.5mm 스테레오 미니 잭 커넥터 및 6.35mm 스테레오 잭
커넥터.




                     44
4 개의 조절식 피트를 펼쳐 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의
높이를 올리고 아래에 케이블이 위치하도록 합니다.




− DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를 옮기기 전에는 피트를
 접습니다.
− DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를 사용하지 않을 때는
 피트를 접은 채로 보관합니다.
− 피트를 펼친 상태에서 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를
 5kg/50 뉴턴을 초과하는 힘으로 누르지 마십시오.




                    45
4.      설치

연결
1. 전원    어댑터를        DJControl    Inpulse T7   컨트롤러에
  연결합니다.
2. 전원 케이블을 전원 어댑터에 연결하고 콘센트에 플러그를
  꽂습니다.
3. USB 케이블을 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러에 연결하고
  컴퓨터에 연결합니다.
4. DJControl   Inpulse T7   컨트롤러의       POWER     버튼을
  누릅니다. 버튼이 눌러집니다.
5. 스피커의 전원이 꺼져 있는지 확인하고 외부 앰프에
  연결되어 있는 경우 앰프의 전원이 꺼져 있는지 확인합니다.
  활성화된         스피커의         입력을    DJControl   Inpulse T7
  컨트롤러의 스피커 Master 출력에 연결합니다(2 x RCA
  또는 2 x XLR).
6. DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 MASTER 음량을 가장
  낮게 조절한 다음 스피커의 전원을 켭니다.
7. 헤드폰을 귀에 착용하지 않고 목에 건 다음, 헤드폰을
  3.5mm 미니 잭 커넥터 또는 6.35mm 잭 커넥터에
  연결합니다.
8. 마이크를 마이크 입력에 연결합니다(선택 사항).




                            46
              전원 공급
− 사용 설명서에 표시된 전원 공급 장치만 사용하십시오.
− 전원 공급 장치의 명판에 표시된 네트워크 전압과 주파수를
 가진 전원 공급 장치만 사용하십시오.




                47
− 두 가지 출력 형식(XLR 및 RCA)을 동시에 사용할 수
 있습니다. 예를 들어 출력 쌍을 PA 시스템에 연결하고 두
 번째 출력 쌍은 모니터링 스피커에 연결할 수 있습니다.
− Vegas Mode 라 불리는 LED 조명 시퀀스는 DJControl
 Inpulse   T7   컨트롤러를    컴퓨터에   연결할   때마다
 시작합니다. Vegas Mode 는 4 단계로 이루어지며, 모든
 LED 의 불을 밝히고 BROWSER 인코더의 패드와
 백라이트 링에 여러 가지 색상을 표시할 수 있습니다.




                    48
소프트웨어 다운로드
DJUCED

 1. https://www.djuced.com/hercules    를      방문하시기
   바랍니다.
 2. DJUCED®를 다운로드해 설치하십시오.
 3. 다음 사이트를 방문하시기 바랍니다.
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulse
   t7/(영어).
 4. 컴퓨터 운영체제에 맞는 드라이버 팩을 다운로드하여
   설치하십시오.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®로 ASIO 모드에서 DJControl Inpulse T7 을
    사용하려면 드라이버를 설치해야 하며, 이는 WASAPI
    모드와 비교했을 때 레이턴시가 더 적고 일반적으로 더
    안정적입니다.
    또한, 드라이버를 통해 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를
    테스트하고 Windows® 및 macOS® 모두에서 펌웨어
    버전을 확인할 수 있습니다.
 5. DJUCED    소프트웨어를          시작하십시오.         DJControl
   Inpulse T7 컨트롤러가 성공적으로 감지되었음을 알리는
   창이 나타나면 사용할 준비가 된 것입니다.




                          49
소프트웨어를 처음 실행하면 DJUCED®가 헤드폰과 액티브
스피커를 연결하도록 안내합니다(외부 액티브 스피커가 없는
경우 컴퓨터에 내장된 스피커를 사용하도록 안내). 시작하기
전에 화면에 표시되는 지침을 단계별로 따라주십시오.


오디오 설정:

DJUCED®에서 사운드 카드 설정을 수정하려면 화면 오른쪽
상단에 있는 톱니바퀴 아이콘             을 클릭합니다. 설정 메뉴가
표시됩니다.
Audio(오디오) 탭을 선택하여 사운드 카드를 선택하고 헤드폰 및
스피커의 출력을 할당합니다.


Windows® 표준 설정은 다음과 같습니다.
 − Audio device(오디오 장치): DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
   (ASIO)
 − Output(출력):
            o 마스터: 출력 1&2
            o 헤드폰: 출력 3&4




                       50
macOS® 표준 설정은 다음과 같습니다.
 − Audio device(오디오 장치): DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Output(출력):
         o 마스터: 출력 1&2
         o 헤드폰: 출력 3&4




                        51
Serato DJ Lite

  1. 다음          사이트를            방문하시기          바랍니다.
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
  2. Serato DJ Lite 를 다운로드해 설치합니다.
  3. 다음 사이트를 방문하시기 바랍니다.
    https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulse
    t7/(영어).
  4. 컴퓨터 운영체제에 맞는 드라이버 팩을 다운로드하여
    설치하십시오.
           o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
           o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®로 ASIO 모드에서 DJControl Inpulse T7 을
    사용하려면 드라이버를 설치해야 하며, 이는 WASAPI
    모드와 비교했을 때 레이턴시가 더 적고 일반적으로 더
    안정적입니다.
    또한, 드라이버를 통해 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를
    테스트하고 Windows® 및 macOS® 모두에서 펌웨어
    버전을 확인할 수 있습니다.




                            52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 에는 Serato DJ Pro 용
라이선스가 아닌 Serato DJ Lite 용 라이선스가 포함되어
있습니다.
Serato DJ Lite 는 기간 제한 없이 이용할 수 있습니다.
Serato DJ Lite 대신 Serato DJ Pro 를 설치하는 경우 Serato
DJ Pro 가 무료 체험 기간 동안 DJControl Inpulse T7 과 함께
작동합니다. 이 무료 체험 기간이 끝난 후에도 Serato DJ
Pro 를 계속 사용하고 싶은 경우에는 Serato DJ Pro
라이선스를 구입해야 합니다.




                      53
 5.    믹싱을 생생하게 만들기
믹싱을 생생하게 만드는 방법은 여러 가지입니다.



모드 및 패드

패드

DJUCED에서는, 패드 1~8 이 현재 활성화된 모드에 해당하는
작업을 수행합니다.


Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 패드 1~4 가 현재 활성화된 모드에
해당하는 작업을 수행합니다. 패드 5~8 은 다음과 같은 작업을
수행합니다.
 − 패드 5: Reverse(역재생)
 − 패드 6: 되감기
 − 패드 7: 앞으로 감기
 − 패드 8: Censor. 이 동작을 사용하면 패드를 누른 상태에서
     트랙을 역으로 재생할 수 있습니다. 패드를 놓으면, 트랙이
     정상적으로 계속 재생되었을 경우에 트랙이 있을 지점에서
     재생이 다시 시작됩니다. 이것은 곡에서 노골적인 언어를
     가리는 데 사용할 수 있습니다.




                        54
패드에서 활성화된 모드는 사용 중인 소프트웨어에 따라
다릅니다.


 모드     DJUCED       Serato DJ Lite   Serato DJ Pro**

  1      Hot Cue         Hot Cue          Hot Cue

  2     Loop Roll       Auto Loop        Auto Loop

  3        스템             스템                스템

  4       샘플러            샘플러               샘플러

  5     TonePlay             –           Pitch Play

  6       PadFX              –            Loop Roll

  7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop       Manual Loop

  8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks    Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro 라이선스 미포함.




                        55
Hot Cue 모드

Hot Cue 포인트는 마커(북마크와 유사)로, 트랙에 배치하여
트랙에서 이 지점을 다시 쉽게 찾을 수 있으며 이후에 즉시
되돌아갈 수 있습니다.


DJUCED에서는, 트랙당 8 개의 Hot Cue 포인트를 설정할 수
있습니다.


Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 트랙당 4 개의 Hot Cue 포인트를 설정할
수 있습니다.
Serato DJ Pro 에서는, 트랙당 8 개의 Hot Cue 포인트를 설정할
수 있습니다.


 1. Hot Cue 모드에 액세스하려면 HOT CUE 1 을 누릅니다.
   HOT CUE 1 버튼의 불이 켜진 상태를 유지합니다.
 2. Hot Cue 포인트를 설정하려면 패드를 누릅니다.
 3. Hot Cue 포인트에서 트랙을 재생하려면 해당 패드를
   누릅니다.
 4. Hot Cue 포인트를 제거하려면 SHIFT 와 패드를 동시에
   누릅니다.




                     56
Loop 모드




DJUCED에서 이 모드는 Loop Roll 모드에 해당합니다.
루프를 적용하면 데크 플레이헤드가 백그라운드에서 계속
실행됩니다. 루프를 비활성화하면, 트랙이 계속 재생되었을
경우에 트랙이 있을 지점에서 재생이 다시 시작됩니다.
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서 이 모드는 Auto Loop
모드에 해당합니다.


루프는 반복적으로 재생되는 트랙의 일부입니다.


  1. Loop 모드에 액세스하려면 LOOP 2 를 누릅니다. LOOP 2
    버튼의 불이 켜진 상태를 유지합니다.


DJUCED에서:
  2. 루프를 적용하려면 패드를 길게 누릅니다.
  3. 루프를 비활성화하려면 해당하는 패드를 놓으십시오.


Serato DJ Lite 에서:
  2. 루프를 적용하려면 패드를 누릅니다.
  3. 루프를     비활성화하려면      해당하는     패드를     누릅니다.




                        57
루프 길이:

   데크 1 / 데크 2   DJUCED    Serato DJ Lite

      패드 1       비트의 1/16       1 비트

      패드 2        ⅛ 비트          2 비트

      패드 3        ¼ 비트          4 비트

      패드 4        ½ 비트          8 비트

      패드 5        1 비트            -

      패드 6        2 비트            -

      패드 7        4 비트            -

      패드 8        8 비트            -




                  58
Stems 모드

Stems 모드를 사용하면 한 트랙을 “stems”라 일컫는 4 개의 서로
다른 파트(보컬 및 악기)로 분리할 수 있습니다.


  1. Stems 모드에 액세스하려면 STEMS 3 을 누릅니다.
    STEMS 3 버튼에 불이 들어 온 상태로 유지됩니다.
  2. 패드 1~4 는 stem 과 각각 연결되어 있습니다. stem 재생을
    중지하려면 해당 패드를 누릅니다. 패드의 불이 꺼집니다.
  3. stem 재생을 다시 시작하려면 해당 패드를 누릅니다.
    패드에 불이 들어옵니다.


Stems:

         데크 1 / 데크 2          스템

            패드 1              보컬

            패드 2              멜로디

            패드 3              베이스

            패드 4              드럼




                       59
트랙의 stems 를 처음으로 활성화하면 분리 작업이 항상 즉시
이루어지는 것은 아닙니다. DJ 소프트웨어가 트랙을 분석하고
여러 파트를 생성(보컬, 멜로디, 베이스, 드럼)하는 동안 잠시
동안의 시간이 소요될 수 있습니다.


stems 를 분리하는 시점과 재생하는 시점 간에 반드시 충분한
시간적 여유를 두어야 합니다. stems 의 여러 다양한 정보가
생성되면 stems 의 재생이 즉각적으로 실행됩니다.


Stems   모드를   사용하려면    강력한   성능의   컴퓨터가
필요합니다.




                      60
Sampler 모드

샘플은 현재 재생 중인 트랙에서 재생되는 짧은 소리입니다. 이
소리는 한 번(jingle) 또는 반복적(루프)으로 재생할 수 있습니다.


DJUCED에서는, 패드 1~8 을 사용하면 다중레이어 샘플러의
처음 2 줄에 있는 8 개의 샘플을 재생할 수 있습니다.
다중레이어 샘플러를 표시하려면 DJUCED의 화면 왼쪽 상단에
있는 드롭다운 메뉴에서 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers 를
선택합니다.


Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 패드 1~4 를 사용하면 샘플을 재생할 수
있습니다.
샘플 패널을 표시하려면 Serato DJ Lite 에서   를 클릭합니다.


 1. Sampler 모드에 액세스하려면 SAMPLER 4 를 누릅니다.
   SAMPLER 4 버튼의 불이 켜진 상태를 유지합니다.
 2. 샘플을 재생하려면 패드를 누릅니다.
 3. 샘플 재생을 중지하려면 SHIFT 와 해당 패드를 동시에
   누릅니다.




                     61
모드 5




Serato DJ Lite 에는 모드 5(TonePlay)가 없습니다.
Serato DJ Pro 는 Pitch 'n Time 플러그인과 함께 TonePlay
모드와 동일한 원리를 사용하여 작동하는 Pitch Play 모드를
제공합니다.


DJUCED에서는, 모드 5 가 TonePlay 모드에 해당합니다. 이
모드를 사용하면 Hot Cue 포인트를 다른 톤으로 다시 재생할 수
있습니다.


 1. Hot Cue 모드를 활성화한 다음, Hot Cue 포인트를
   선택합니다.
 2. 모드 5 에 액세스하려면 SHIFT 와 HOT CUE 1 을 동시에
   누릅니다. HOT CUE 1 버튼이 깜박입니다.
 3. Hot Cue 포인트의 톤을 수정하려면, 패드 2~8 중 하나를
   누릅니다.
 4. 원래 톤으로 돌아가려면 패드 1 을 누릅니다.




                       62
톤 수정하기:

    데크 1 / 데크 2         톤

       패드 1            원래 톤

       패드 2             +1

       패드 3             +2

       패드 4             +3

       패드 5             -1

       패드 6             -2

       패드 7             -3

       패드 8             -4




                  63
모드 6




Serato DJ Lite 에는 모드 6 가 없습니다.


DJUCED에서는 모드 6 이 PadFX 모드에 해당합니다. 이
모드를 통해 패드를 사용하여 이펙트 랙의 이펙트를 컨트롤할 수
있습니다.
이펙트는 때때로 소리를 바꾸기 위해 트랙에 적용하는 필터 또는
필터의 조합입니다(에코, 리버브…).


이펙트 랙을 표시하려면        아이콘을 클릭합니다.


 1. 모드 6 에 액세스하려면 SHIFT 와 LOOP 2 를 동시에
   누릅니다. LOOP 2 버튼이 깜박입니다.
 2. 동작을 수행하려면 패드를 누릅니다.
 3. 효과를 비활성화하려면 해당하는 패드를 누릅니다(패드
   1~3).




                      64
가능한 동작:

 데크 1 / 데크 2            효과

    패드 1              랙의 이펙트 1

    패드 2              랙의 이펙트 2

    패드 3              랙의 이펙트 3

    패드 4        이펙트 랙을 표시/숨깁니다

    패드 5       랙에서 이펙트 1 을 변경합니다

    패드 6       랙에서 이펙트 2 를 변경합니다

    패드 7       랙에서 이펙트 3 을 변경합니다

    패드 8                 -




                 65
모드 7




DJUCED에서는, 모드 7 이 Slicer Loop 모드에 해당합니다.
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는 모드 7 이 Manual
Loop 모드에 해당합니다.


DJUCED에서는, 모드 7 이 Slicer Loop 모드에 해당합니다. 이
모드를 사용하면 활성화된 루프를 8 개 섹션으로 분할할 수
있습니다.


 1. 모드 7(Slicer Loop)에 액세스하려면 SHIFT 와 STEMS 3 을
   동시에 누릅니다. STEMS 3 버튼이 깜박입니다.
 2. 한 섹션을 루프로 플레이하려면 패드를 길게 누릅니다.
 3. 한 섹션의 재생을 중지하려면 해당하는 패드를 놓아줍니다.




                      66
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는 모드 7 이 Manual Loop
모드에 해당합니다. 이 모드를 사용하면 루프를 수동으로
활성화할 수 있습니다.


  1. 모드    7(Manual   Loop)에     액세스하려면      SHIFT   와
    STEMS 3    을      동시에    누릅니다.     STEMS 3   버튼이
    깜박입니다.
  2. 동작을 수행하려면 패드를 누릅니다.


가능한 동작:

    데크 1/2                        효과

    패드 1           한 번 누름: 시작 지점(IN)을 설정합니다
                   두 번 누름: 시작 지점(IN)을 수정합니다


    패드 2           한 번 누름: 종료 지점(OUT)을 설정합니다
                   두 번 누름: 시작 지점(OUT)을 수정합니다


    패드 3                    루프 활성화/비활성화

    패드 4           플레이헤드를 루프의 시작으로 이동하고
                             루프 재생(Reloop)


  AUTOLOOP                  루프의 길이 증가/감소
    인코더




                            67
모드 8




DJUCED에서는, 모드 8 이 BeatJump 모드에 해당합니다.
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는, 모드 8 이 Scratch
Banks 모드에 해당합니다.


DJUCED에서는, 모드 8 이 BeatJump 모드에 해당합니다. 이
모드를 사용하면 트랙에서 정확하게 점프할 수 있습니다.

 1. 모드 8(BeatJump)에     액세스하려면         SHIFT     와
   SAMPLER 4 를 동시에 누릅니다. SAMPLER 4 버튼이
   깜박입니다.
 2. 점프하려면 패드를 누릅니다.

점프 길이:

       데크 1 / 데크 2                 점프

          패드 1                1 비트 뒤로 가기

          패드 2                1 비트 앞으로 가기

          패드 3                2 비트 뒤로 가기

          패드 4                2 비트 앞으로 가기

          패드 5                4 비트 뒤로 가기

          패드 6                4 비트 앞으로 가기

          패드 7                8 비트 뒤로 가기

          패드 8                8 비트 앞으로 가기
Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 에서는, 모드 8 이 Scratch
Banks 모드에 해당합니다. 이 모드를 사용하면 현재 재생 중인
트랙 대신에 전동식 플래터에서 스크래치할 스크래치 샘플을

                       68
데크에 불러온 후에 현재 재생 중인 트랙으로 빠르게 돌아갈 수
있습니다.
스크래치 샘플 패널을 표시하려면 Serato DJ Lite 에서               를
클릭합니다.


 1. 모드 8(Scratch    Banks)에   액세스하려면      SHIFT   와
   SAMPLER 4 를 동시에 누릅니다. SAMPLER 4 버튼이
   깜박입니다.
 2. 스크래치 샘플을 재생하려면 패드를 누릅니다.
 3. 스크래치 샘플 재생을 중지하고 이전에 재생하고 있던
   트랙으로 돌아가려면 SHIFT 와 해당 패드를 동시에
   누릅니다.


샘플:

      데크 1 / 데크 2                  샘플

         패드 1                      Ahh!

         패드 2                    Hey You!

         패드 3                     Oww!

         패드 4                     Yeah!




                         69
스크래칭
스크래칭은 전동식 플래터를 돌려 트랙에서 음향 효과를 만드는
것으로 구성됩니다.


집게 손가락을 전동식 플래터의 상단에 놓고 오른쪽과 왼쪽으로
조금씩 빠르게 움직입니다


이 스크래치 작업을 여러 번 반복하면 리듬을 만들어 낼 수
있습니다.




− 스크래칭 또는 믹싱을 시작하기 전에 자동 플래터와바이닐
  레코드 사이에 펠트 슬립매트를 놓았는지 확인하십시오.

− 바이닐 레코드 자동 플래터 위에 놓을 때 힘을 주지
  마십시오. 바이닐 레코드의 가운데 부분이 손상될 위험이
  있습니다.




                70
필터
트랙의 필터를 조정하면 특정 주파수를 감쇠시킬 수 있습니다.


 − 고주파수(로우 패스 필터 또는 하이 컷 필터로 알려짐) 감쇠:
  필터 노브(FILTER)를 왼쪽으로 돌립니다.
 − 저주파수(하이 패스 필터 또는 로우 컷 필터로 알려짐) 감쇠:
  필터 노브(FILTER)를 오른쪽으로 돌립니다.




                 71
 6.   다중 채널 사운드 카드
DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러에는 내장형 다중 채널 사운드
카드가 포함되어 있으므로 스피커를 통해 믹스한 것을 청중에게
재생하고(스피커용 Master 출력), 헤드폰을 통해 준비 중인 다음
트랙을 모니터링하며(헤드폰 출력), 마이크 및/또는 라인 레벨
출력이 장착된 장치를 오디오 소스로 사용할 수 있습니다.




                   72
스피커용 Master 출력(출력 1-2)
활성화된 스피커는 DJ 컨트롤러의 뒷면에 위치한 두 개의
스피커용 Master 출력 중 하나에 연결되어야 합니다.




두   가지   출력   형식을        동시에   사용할   수
있습니다. 예를 들어 첫 번째 출력 쌍은 PA 시스템에, 두 번째
출력 쌍은 모니터링 스피커에 연결할 수 있습니다.




                    73
헤드폰 출력(출력 3-4)
헤드폰은 DJ 컨트롤러의 앞면에 위치한 두 개의 헤드폰 출력 중
   하나에 연결되어야 합니다.




기본적으로 DJ 컨트롤러를 연결할 때마다, 헤드폰 출력이 출력
3-4 로 할당되어 있으므로 특히 DJUCED® 및 Serato DJ Lite 를
비롯한 시중에 판매 중인 모든 디제잉 소프트웨어와 함께
작동시킬 수 있습니다.


단, 사용 중인 디제이 컨트롤러의 헤드폰 출력을 사용하여
iTunes 등으로 컴퓨터에서 음악을 듣고 싶은 경우, 반드시 출력
1-2 를 헤드폰 출력에 라우팅해야 합니다. 이렇게 하려면
MASTER VU 미터 아래에 위치한       버튼을 누릅니다.




                     74
두 쌍의 헤드폰을 동시에         연결하는   것을   권장하지
않습니다(예: 한 쌍은 3.5mm 미니 잭 출력 커넥터에, 다른 한
쌍은 6.35mm 잭 출력 커넥터에 연결). 헤드폰 두 쌍의
임피던스가 동일하지 않으면 각 쌍의 출력 볼륨이 달라집니다.




                 75
마이크 입력
마이크는 반드시 DJ 컨트롤러 뒷면에 위치한 마이크 입력에
연결되어 있어야 합니다. 마이크 입력은 밸런스드 모드입니다.




                76
밸런스드          또는           언밸런스드   마이크를
연결할 수 있습니다. 밸런스드 마이크는 호흡 효과가
적으면서도 더 명확하고 강력한 사운드를 냅니다. 밸런스드
마이크가 밸런스 케이블을 사용하여 연결되지 않은 경우,
마이크 케이블로 인해 마이크 음질이 저하됩니다.


                   밸런스드 케이블


          Tip(팁)
        Ring(링)

    Sleeve(슬리브)




               언밸런스드 케이블


          Tip(팁)


    Sleeve(슬리브)




                      77
  7.     호환성

USB Audio / USB MIDI
이 DJ 컨트롤러는 플러그 앤 플레이 방식으로 작동하며 USB
Audio 및 USB MIDI 표준을 준수하므로 PC 또는 Mac 에서
드라이브 없이 DJUCED와 작동할 수 있습니다.



ASIO 및 Windows® 컨트롤 패널

Serato DJ Lite 와 함께 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를
사용하려면        ASIO   드라이버를        설치해야       합니다.      ASIO
드라이버는 여기에서 사용할 수 있습니다.
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/.

또한, DJUCED를 사용하고 있는 경우 PC 에서 레이턴시가 더
짧은 것을 활용하기 위해 ASIO 드라이버를 다운로드할 수도
있습니다.

ASIO 드라이버는 PC 의 작업 표시줄에서 접속할 수 있는
제어판이나         C:\Program      Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\
DJ Console Series\cpl2\ 디렉토리에 있습니다. 이 제어판에서는
버퍼 크기 및 레이턴시 등 다양한 ASIO 설정을 조정할 수
있습니다.




                            78
ASIO 설정 조정 방법:
 − ASIO 버퍼 크기를 4 또는 8ms 로 설정합니다.
 − 소프트웨어(예:        DJUCED®)를    실행하고     DJControl
   Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) 드라이버를 선택합니다.




소프트웨어에서     ASIO    드라이버       사용을   시작한   후에는,
제어판에서 더 이상 ASIO 설정을 변경할 수 없습니다. 이는 매우
정상적인 것으로, ASIO 드라이버가 사용 중임을 나타냅니다.




                       79
소프트웨어를 사용하여 오디오에 발생할 수 있는 글리치 또는
결함(클릭, 튀는 소리), 또는 레이턴시와 관련한 문제를 주의
깊게 들어보시기 바랍니다. 글리치 또는 결함이 발생한다면 버퍼
크기를 키워 문제를 해결해야 합니다.


소프트웨어를 종료하고, 한 번에 1 개 값씩 ASIO 버튼을
조정합니다.
  − 버퍼 크기를 줄여 지연을 줄입니다.
  − 오디오 결함이나 아티팩트가 있는 경우 버퍼 크기를
    증가시킵니다.


버퍼 크기가 시스템에 최적화 될 때까지 이 절차를 반복해야 할
수 있습니다.


드라이버는 다음 주소에서 사용할 수 있습니다.
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/




                            80
펌웨어 업데이트
DJ 컨트롤러는 자동 펌웨어 업데이트 모드를 지원합니다. 이에
따라 Hercules 드라이버를 설치하고 화면의 지침을 따라야
합니다. 펌웨어 업데이트는 자동으로 이루어집니다.


드라이버는 다음 주소에서 사용할 수 있습니다.
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpulset7/


제어판에서도 이 정보에 액세스하여 ABOUT(소개) 탭에서
컴퓨터에      설치된     드라이버       버전을     표시할     수   있습니다.
Hercules 의 기술 지원팀에 문의해야 할 경우, 이 정보를 미리
준비합니다.




                            81
제어판에서 DJ 컨트롤러 테스트하기
DJControl Inpulse T7 제어판의 ABOUT(소개) 섹션에서 전동식
플래터와 함께 DJ 컨트롤러의 음향과 MIDI 컨트롤, 조명을
테스트할 수 있습니다.


다음 디렉토리에서 제어판에 액세스할 수 있습니다. C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



       오디오 테스트

DJ   소프트웨어를        사용하지         않고   DJControl   Inpulse T7
컨트롤러의        오디오       인터페이스         소리가         작동하는지
테스트하려면        스피커     아이콘을       클릭합니다.      테스트      중에
아이콘에 초록색 불이 들어오고 프로그램이 스피커 및 헤드폰의
Master 출력에 소리를 재생합니다.




                           82
      MIDI 컨트롤 테스트

DJ   소프트웨어를      사용하지        않고   DJControl   Inpulse T7
컨트롤러의     MIDI    컨트롤이       작동하는지        테스트하려면
테스트하고자 하는 버튼 또는 컨트롤을 사용해 봅니다. DIN
커넥터에 초록색 불이 들어오면 MIDI 명령어가 수신되고 있으며
버튼   또는   기타     컨트롤이    정상적으로        작동하고       있다는
의미입니다.




                        83
      조명 테스트

DJ   소프트웨어를    사용하지     않고   DJControl   Inpulse T7
컨트롤러의 LED 가 작동하는지 테스트하려면 전구 아이콘을
클릭하여 컨트롤러의 LED 에 불이 들어오는지 확인합니다.
테스트 중에 아이콘에 녹색 불이 켜지고 컨트롤러의 LED 에
불이 들어옵니다.




두 데크의 IN 및 OUT          버튼을       동시에        눌러
DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 모든 LED 를 켤 수도
있습니다.




                   84
 4.   전동식 플래터 테스트

DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 전동식 플래터가 작동하는지
테스트하려면 플래터 1 또는 2 의 아이콘을 클릭합니다. 테스트
중에 해당 플래터와 DIN 커넥터의 아이콘에 녹색 불이 들어오고
컨트롤러의 전동식 플래터가 움직입니다(회전).


전동식 플래터 1 번 테스트:




전동식 플래터 2 번 테스트:




                   85
 8.   데모 모드
이 모드는 컴퓨터를 사용하지 않고 DJ 컨트롤러를 전원 공급
장치 및 USB 전원 장치에 연결할 때 사용 가능하며, 특히 매장
내에서 사용됩니다. 이 경우, DJ 컨트롤러는 작동할 수 없는 데모
모드이며 이 모드에서는 컨트롤러의 여러 조명을 켜는 데모
시퀀스가 계속 반복됩니다.




                 86
 9.   FAQ

 1. 헤드폰에서 소리가 나오지 않습니다.

DJ 컨트롤러에는 DJUCED® 및 Serato DJ Lite 와 함께
작동하도록 미리 구성된 다중 채널 사운드 카드가 장착되어
있으므로, DJ 컨트롤러 앞면에 헤드폰이 연결되어 있는지
확인해 주십시오.
소프트웨어를 처음 시작할 때 기본적으로 2 개 모니터링 버튼이
활성화됩니다.   그런   다음   헤드폰으로   듣고   싶은   데크를
선택하거나, MASTER VU 미터 아래에 위치한           버튼을
눌러 믹싱 결과물을 들을 수 있습니다.




                    87
 2.      헤드폰의 소리가 왜곡되거나 너무
      낮습니다.
헤드폰에    TRRS      커넥터(헤드폰   +   마이크)가      아닌   TRS
커넥터(표준 헤드폰)가 있는지 확인해 주십시오.


         Tip(팁)                   Tip(팁)
        Ring(링)                   Ring(링)
                                  Ring(링)
  Sleeve(슬리브)
                                  Sleeve(슬리브)




TRRS 커넥터는 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러와 호환되지
않습니다.




                       88
 3. 스피커에서 소리가 나오지 않습니다.

DJ 컨트롤러에는 DJUCED® 및 Serato DJ Lite 와 함께
작동하도록 미리 구성된 다중 채널 사운드 카드가 장착되어
있으므로, DJ 컨트롤러의 RCA 또는 XLR 커넥터에 스피커가
연결되어 있는지 확인하십시오.


DJ   소프트웨어를   사용하지     않고   DJControl   Inpulse T7
컨트롤러의   오디오   인터페이스가        소리를   만들고      있는지
테스트하기 위해 DJ 컨트롤러의 제어판을 표시할 수 있습니다.
ABOUT(정보) 탭을 클릭한 다음 스피커 아이콘을 클릭합니다.
소리가 재생되고 있으면 아이콘이 녹색으로 바뀝니다.




                  89
 4.     랩톱 컴퓨터 스피커에서 소리가 나오지
      않습니다.
DJ 컨트롤러에는 미리 구성된 다중 채널 사운드 카드가
장착되어 있습니다. 노트북에 내장된 스피커를 사용하고 싶은
경우:
 − DJUCED®에서는, 설정에 액세스하고 SEND MASTER TO
      COMPUTER SPEAKERS (마스터를 컴퓨터 스피커로 전송)
      옵션을 선택합니다.




 − Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 설정에 액세스하고 Audio(오디오)
      탭을 열고 Use Laptop Speakers(노트북 스피커 사용)
      옵션을 선택합니다.




                     90
 5.      헤드폰이나 랩톱 컴퓨터 스피커에서
      소리가 나오지 않습니다.
기본적으로 소리는 스피커용 Master 출력과 헤드폰 출력에서
나옵니다. 그러므로 노트북 컴퓨터에서 소리가 나오지 않는 것은
정상입니다.


노트북에 내장된 스피커를 사용하고 싶은 경우:
 − DJUCED®에서는, 설정에 액세스하고 SEND MASTER TO
      COMPUTER SPEAKERS (마스터를 컴퓨터 스피커로 전송)
      옵션을   선택합니다.   헤드폰을   DJControl   Inpulse T7
      컨트롤러에 연결해야 합니다.




                     91
 − Serato DJ Lite 에서는, 설정에 액세스하고 Audio(오디오)
     탭을 열고 Use Laptop Speakers(노트북 스피커 사용)
     옵션을   선택합니다.   헤드폰을      DJControl   Inpulse T7
     컨트롤러에 연결해야 합니다.




DJ   소프트웨어를      사용하지    않고   DJControl   Inpulse T7
컨트롤러의      오디오   인터페이스가       소리를   만들고      있는지
테스트하기 위해 DJ 컨트롤러의 제어판을 표시할 수 있습니다.
ABOUT(정보) 탭을 클릭한 다음 스피커 아이콘을 클릭합니다.
소리가 재생되고 있으면 아이콘이 녹색으로 바뀝니다.




                    92
 6.   Windows®에서      음질        문제가
  발생했습니다.

재생 중인 트랙의 볼륨이 너무 낮습니다

DJ 소프트웨어의 마스터 볼륨은 DJ 컨트롤러의 볼륨
컨트롤과 별개입니다. 따라서 DJ 소프트웨어의 마스터
볼륨이 낮은 한 Master 출력의 볼륨도 낮습니다.

DJ 소프트웨어의 볼륨을 확인하고 필요한 경우 볼륨을
높이십시오.

 − DJUCED에서는 창 오른쪽 상단 바에 있는 볼륨
  버튼을 사용하십시오.




 − Serato DJ Lite 에서는 창 오른쪽 상단 바에 있는
  볼륨 버튼을 사용하십시오.




                93
헤드폰 볼륨이 너무 낮습니다

Serato DJ Lite 에서 설정에 액세스하고 Audio(오디오)
탭을 열고 Use Laptop Speakers(노트북 스피커 사용)를
선택 해제(예: 선택 취소)합니다.




                  94
Use Laptop Speakers(노트북 스피커 사용) 상자를
선택된 상태(예: 선택)로 유지해야 할 경우 컴퓨터에
내장된 사운드 카드를를 "컴퓨터 스피커"로 설정합니다.
 1. Serato DJ Lite 소프트웨어를 닫습니다.
 2. Windows   액세스에    접속하여   System(시스템),
   Sound(사운드)로 이동합니다.
 3. Output(출력)에서 컴퓨터에 내장된 사운드 카드를
   선택합니다. DJ 컨트롤러는 더 이상 출력으로
   설정하면 안 됩니다.




Windows®에서 DJ 컨트롤러를 Windows® 사운드 카드로
설정했을 수 있습니다. 이 설정을 유지하면 Use Laptop
Speakers(노트북    스피커    사용)   설정을   통해   DJ
컨트롤러의 4 채널 출력(Master 출력 + 헤드폰)에서
Master 출력을 재생할 수 있습니다.




                      95
소리가 깨끗하지 않습니다

DJUCED®:
ASIO   오디오     장치를     사용하는            것을   권장합니다.
WASAPI 장치를 사용하면 음질은 일반적으로 좋습니다.
그러나 지연 시간이 길어지고 소리가 선명히 들리지 않을
수 있습니다.


설정에     액세스하여         Audio(오디오)        탭을       클릭하고
DJControl   Inpulse   T7        ASIO   (ASIO)를    Audio
device(오디오 장치)로 선택합니다.




Serato DJ Lite 에서:
설정에 액세스하고 Audio(오디오) 탭을 열고 Use Laptop
Speakers(노트북 스피커 사용)을 선택 해제(예: 선택
취소)합니다.




                           96
    7.      멀티미디어       스피커를        DJControl
         Inpulse T7 에 연결할 수 없습니다.

스피커의 커넥터가 DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러의 커넥터와
다른 경우 듀얼 RCA to 3.5mm 미니 잭 어댑터(미포함)를
사용하여 멀티미디어 스피커에 연결하고 듀얼 XLR to 6.35mm
잭    어댑터(미포함)를    사용하여     PA   스피커에   연결하거나
스피커에 맞는 다른 어댑터 형식을 사용할 수 있습니다.
또한, 스피커를 헤드폰 출력과 연결하고 MASTER VU 미터
아래에 위치한          버튼을 눌러 출력 1-2 에서 출력 3-4 로
라우팅할 수도 있습니다



 8. DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러는 iPad
         또는 iPhone 과 호환되나요?
아니요. DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러는 iPad 또는 iPhone 과
호환되지 않습니다. PC 또는 Mac 에서만 작동합니다.




                      97
 9. DJControl Inpulse T7 컨트롤러를 USB-C
    포트 또는 Thunderbolt 3 포트에 어떻게
    연결할 수 있나요?
DJControl   Inpulse T7   컨트롤러를   USB-C   포트   또는
Thunderbolt 3 포트에 연결하는 방법은 세 가지입니다.
  − 어댑터(USB-C[수] 또는 Thunderbolt 3 to USB-A[암])를
    사용하여 컴퓨터와 DJ 컨트롤러를 연결합니다. 몇몇
    저렴한 어댑터는 전원 공급 장치의 일부를 차단하므로
    원활하게 작동하지 않음을 참고하세요.
  − 도크(USB-C 또는 Thunderbolt 3)를 사용하여 컴퓨터와 DJ
    컨트롤러를 연결합니다. 도크에 전용 전원 공급 장치가
    있는지 확인하십시오. USB-C 또는 Thunderbolt 3 포트를
    통해서만 전원이 공급되는 도크는 전원이 부족할 수
    있습니다.
  − 포함된 USB 케이블을 USB-C 또는 Thunderbolt 3 to
    USB-B 2.0 케이블로 교체합니다.




                          98
         기술 지원
https://support.hercules.com




            99
상표
Intel® 및 Intel Core™는 Intel Corporation 의 상표 또는 등록 상표입니다.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 은 미국 및/또는 기타 국가에서 Microsoft Corporation 의
등록 상표 또는 상표입니다.
Mac® 및 macOS®는 미국 및 기타 국가에서 등록된 Apple Inc.의 상표입니다.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite 및 Serato DJ Pro 는 Serato Audio Research Limited 의 등록
상표입니다.
DJUCED 브랜드 및 DJUCED의 그래픽 요소는 Guillemot Corporation 의
자산입니다.
ASIO 는 Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH 의 상표입니다.
이와 같이 기타 모든 상표 및 상품명은 본 문서에서 확인하였으며, 해당 소유자의
자산입니다. 도면은 법적 구속력이 없습니다. 본문의 내용, 설계 및 사양은 공지 없이
변경될 수 있으며, 국가에 따라 다르게 적용될 수 있습니다.


Made in China/제조국: 중국




                           R-R-T60-INPULSE-T7




                                   100
저작권
본 설명서의 내용은 Guillemot Corporation S.A.의 명시적 서면 동의가 없는 경우, 복사,
녹음 또는 기타 방식을 통한 전자적, 기계적, 자기적, 수동적 형태나 수단을 막론하고,
복제, 요약, 전송, 기록하거나 검색 시스템에 저장하거나 특정 언어 또는 컴퓨터
언어로 번역될 수 없습니다.




                            101
DJUCED® 및 Serato DJ Lite 최종 사용자
라이선스 동의서
DJUCED® 및 Serato DJ Lite 를 설치하는 동안 표시된 라이선스 동의서를 주의 깊게
읽어 보십시오.




                         102
Användarmanual
       INNEHÅLLSFÖRTECKNING


1.   INNEHÅLL I FÖRPACKNINGEN .................. 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TEKNISKA SPECIFIKATIONER ................. 10

3.   FUNKTIONER .............................................. 13

     Översikt ............................................................13

     Däck ..................................................................14

     Mixning.............................................................32

     Kontakter .........................................................43

4.   INSTALLATION ........................................... 46

     Anslutningar....................................................46

     Ladda ner programvaran ..............................49

5.   LIVA UPP DIN MIX ...................................... 54

     Lägen och pads ..............................................54

     Scratcha ...........................................................70

     Filter..................................................................71
6.   FLERKANALIGT LJUDKORT ..................... 72

     Master-utgång för högtalare (utgång 1-2) ..73

     Hörlursutgång (utgång 3-4) ..........................74

     Mikrofoningång...............................................76

7.   KOMPATIBILITET ....................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO och Kontrollpanelen i Windows®......78

     Firmwareuppdatering ....................................81

     Testa DJ-kontrollern i kontrollpanelen .......82

8.   DEMOLÄGE ................................................. 86

9.   FAQ:S .......................................................... 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 är en fullfjädrad kontroller
utformad för att hjälpa dig att bemästra vinylspelandets
konst   tack   vare    två   motoriserade     skivtallrikar,
videoguider och integration med programmen DJUCED
och Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 inkluderar en licens för
Serato DJ Lite, men inte för Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite kan användas utan tidsgräns.
Om du installerar Serato DJ Pro istället för Serato DJ
Lite kommer Serato DJ Pro att fungera till DJControl
Inpulse T7 under en testperiod. Om du vill fortsätta
använda Serato DJ Pro när testperioden är över måste
du köpa en licens för Serato DJ Pro.




                             4
Det finns en mängd olika videoguider som lär dig hur
man mixar med Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7-
kontrollern:
  − Hercules DJ Academy:
        o I DJUCED, genom att klicka på   -ikonen.
        o På DJUCED webbplats.
  − Hercules      Audio       YouTube-kanalen   (på
     engelska).
  − The DJ Coach, med kurser ledda av DJ HAPA i
     Serato DJ Lite (på engelska).




                          5
 1.    Innehåll i förpackningen

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Två vinylskivor (17,8 cm)
 − Två filtmattor
 − Flätad USB-kabel
 − Löstagbar strömkabel
 − Nätadapter
 − Bruksanvisning
 − Garantiblad




                          6
Du kan ta bort skyddsfilmerna som täcker VU-mätarna
på Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern. Du kan
även låta skyddsfilmerna vara kvar eftersom de inte
påverkar användningen av VU-mätarna.




                         7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Två vinylskivor (17,8 cm)
 − Två filtmattor
 − Två tunna filtmattor
 − Flätad USB-kabel
 − Löstagbar strömkabel
 − Nätadapter
 − Väska
 − Bruksanvisning
 − Garantiblad




Du kan ta bort skyddsfilmerna som täcker VU-mätarna
på Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition-
kontrollern. Du kan även låta skyddsfilmerna vara kvar
eftersom de inte påverkar användningen av VU-
mätarna.




                          9
  2.    Tekniska specifikationer
Systemkrav:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements


Ljudutgångar:
           o Upplösning = 24 bitar
           o Samplingsfrekvens = 44,1 kHz


Master-utgångar för högtalare (utgång 1-2) via:
  − Två RCA-kontakter:
           o Maximal utgångseffekt = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Två XLR-kontakter (balanserade):
           o Maximal utgångseffekt = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Hörlursutgång    (utgång   3-4)   via   en    3,5   mm-
stereominikontakt och en 6,35 mm-stereokontakt:
           o Maximal utgångseffekt = 5 dBU för 32Ω @
              1 kHz


Mikrofoningång via en 6,35 mm-kontakt (balanserad)




                           10
                  Nätaggregat
− Använd endast det nätaggregat som anges i
 användarmanualen.
− Använd    endast    nätaggregatet   med   den
 nätverksspänning och frekvens som anges på
 nätaggregatets märkplåt.




                       11
            Information om nätaggregatet
     Publicerad                   Värde             Enhet
    information
Tillverkarens namn           GUILLEMOT
  eller varumärke         CORPORATION S.A.
 Företagsnummer         414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
      Adress             2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
                             56910 Carentoir
                                 Frankrike
     Modell-ID               A481-1852590D
 Ingångsspänning                 100 - 240           V
Växelströmsfrekvens               50 - 60            Hz
         (in)
 Utgångsspänning                   18,5             V DC
   Utgångsström                     2,6              O
   Utgångseffekt                   47,9              W
Genomsnittlig aktiv                87,8              %
   effektivitet
 Effektivitet vid låg              87,8              %
 belastning (10%)
Strömförbrukning vid               0,10              W
  ingen belastning




                            12
 3.     Funktioner

Översikt




 1. Motoriserad skivtallrik
 2. Transportknappar (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Loopkontroller (Loop)
 4. Låtväljarkontroller (Browser, Load, Assist./Prep.)
 5. Temporeglage (Pitch fader)
 6. Pads och lägen
 7. Uppspelningslägen
 8. Monitorering,    volymer   (Master,   hörlurar   och
      mikrofon) och Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixningssektion (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixer (crossfader, volymreglar)
 11. Effekter




                          13
Däck

  1. Motoriserad skivtallrik




Filtmatta:    placerad     mellan     den     motoriserade
skivtallriken och vinylskivan. Den skyddar vinylskivan
från att skava mot skivtallriken och minskar vibrationerna
när skivan spelas.




 Se alltid till att placera filtmattan på den motoriserade
 skivtallriken innan du installerar vinylskivan.




                             14
Vinylskiva:    scratcha,   spela    upp   snabbare   eller
långsammare, och rör dig inom låten.
Linjen på vinylskivans etikett är en referenspunkt (dvs.
en markör) för när man mixar och scratchar.


Vilken åtgärd som utförs beror på två kriterier:
  − om låten spelar eller är pausad;
  − var någonstans du rör vinylskivan (ovanpå eller
    ringen).


                           Ovanpå




    Ringen




                            15
Vinylskivornas funktioner med Serato DJ Lite och Serato
DJ Pro:


                      Motoriserad
  Spelar/pausad                        SHIFT-knappen
                       skivtallrik
      Spelar            Ovanpå                  -
                       Scratchar
      Spelar         Ovanpå/ringen           Håll in
                Rör dig snabbt inom låten
      Spelar             Ringen                 -
          Spela upp snabbare eller långsammare
     Pausad          Ovanpå/ringen              -
               Rör dig långsamt inom låten
     Pausad          Ovanpå/ringen           Håll in
                Rör dig snabbt inom låten




                          16
Vinylskivornas funktioner med DJUCED:


                     Motoriserad
 Spelar/pausad                        SHIFT-knappen
                      skivtallrik
     Spelar            Ovanpå                  -
                      Scratchar
     Spelar         Ovanpå/ringen           Håll in
               Rör dig snabbt inom låten
     Spelar             Ringen                 -
        Spela upp snabbare eller långsammare
     Pausad             Ringen                 -
              Rör dig långsamt inom låten




                         17
Motoriserad      skivtallrik:        driver    vinylskivan   som
kontrollerar uppspelningen av låten och låtens hastighet
enligt tempot som ställts in med temporeglaget.


När Beatmatch Guide-funktionen är aktiverad anger de
visuella BEAT ALIGN-guiderna i vilken riktning du
behöver    snurra    ringen      (dvs.        kanten)   på   den
motoriserade skivtallriken för att synkronisera de två
låtarnas beatgrids. När de två röda pilarna inte lyser är
beatgrids synkroniserade.


Mer information om Beatmatch Guide-funktionen finns
under Beatmatch Guide.




Det går inte att inaktivera skivtallrikarnas motorisering.




 − När den motoriserade skivtallriken rör sig ska du
   inte stanna den med handen allt för länge, eftersom
   det kan skada drivsystemet.
 − Var inte för hårdhänt när du placerar vinylskivan på
   den motoriserade skivtallriken. Du riskerar att skada
   mitten av vinylskivan.

                                18
  2. Transportknappar




SHIFT: kombinerad kontroll. Till exempel:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): låser låtens tonart.
  − SHIFT + IN: i DJUCED®, halverar den aktiva
    loopens storlek.


SYNC:        aktiverar   eller    inaktiverar   automatisk
synkronisering av BPM-värdena (BPM = Beats Per
Minute/taktslag per minut) för två låtar.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
       o I       DJUCED:          gör      däcket      till
         mastersynkroniseringsdäck (Master Sync).
       o I Serato DJ Lite: inaktiverar synkronisering på
         däcket.




                             19
CUE: sätter ut en Cue-punkt i låten för att identifiera ett
specifikt ögonblick, eller flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn till
Cue-punktens position.
  − Låten är pausad: sätter ut en cuepunkt där låten är
     pausad.
  − Låten spelar: stoppar uppspelningen av låten och
     flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn till cuepunkten.
       o I DJUCED, om man trycker på CUE när ingen
         cuepunkt har satts ut så stoppas uppspelningen
         och       en        cuepunkt        sätts      ut      vid
         uppspelningsindikatorn.
       o I Serato DJ Lite, om man trycker på CUE när
         ingen cuepunkt har satts ut så stoppas
         uppspelningen och en cuepunkt sätts ut i början
         av låten.
  − CUE + PLAY: flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn till
     cuepunkten och spelar upp låten därifrån.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o I DJUCED: flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn till
         början av låten och stoppar uppspelningen.
      o I Serato DJ Lite: flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn
         till början av låten och startar uppspelningen.


Spela/Pausa: spelar upp eller pausar låten.
  − SHIFT      +     PLAY:     i    Serato    DJ     Lite,   flyttar
     uppspelningsindikatorn till cuepunkten och spelar
     upp låten från denna markör.

                               20
  3. Loopkontroller




AUTOLOOP-encoder:
  − Tryck på encodern: aktiverar eller inaktiverar
    uppspelningen av loopen.
  − Vrid på encodern: ändrar längden på loopen.


IN/OUT: Aktiverar en loop genom att välja inpunkten (IN)
och utpunkten (OUT).
När loopen är aktiv (dvs. aktiverad):
  − Tryck på IN (knappen blinkar) och snurra den
    motoriserade skivtallriken för att ange var loopen
    börjar.
  − Tryck på OUT (knappen blinkar) och snurra den
    motoriserade skivtallriken för att ange var loopen
    slutar.
Tryck på AUTOLOOP-encodern för att avsluta loopen.
I DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: halverar den aktiva loopens storlek.
  − SHIFT + OUT: dubblerar den aktiva loopens storlek.
  − Håll in IN: aktiverar en loop med fyra taktslag.



                            21
  4. Låtväljarkontroller




BROWSER-encoder*:           bläddra      igenom       ditt
musikbibliotek och listan med låtar genom att vrida
encodern åt vänster (upp) eller höger (ner).
Tryck på encodern för att välja mappar och ladda den
valda låten på måldäcket


Upplyst ring:
  − I DJUCED, visar energinivån på masterspåret för
    tempot.
  − I Serato DJ Lite, visar rytmen. Ljuset blinkar i takt
    med låten:
           o Rött: anger det första taktslaget
           o Blått: anger de tre påföljande taktslagen.




                           22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − I DJUCED, visar panelen med förslag på de bästa
    kommande låtarna för din mix.
    Vrid på BROWSER-encodern för att bläddra igenom
    listan med föreslagna låtar.
    Tryck på BROWSER-encodern för att välja en låt.
    Låten som redan är laddad på detta däck måste
    pausas.
    Tryck på ASSIST./PREP. och vrid på encodern för
    att justera energinivån på de föreslagna låtarna.
  − I Serato DJ Lite, lägger till låten som spelas i listan
    Prepare (Förbered).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: öppnar panelen Prepare
    (Förbered).


BACK*: rör dig genom trädstrukturen i DJUCED och
Serato DJ Lite.
  − I DJUCED, tryck på SHIFT och BACK för att gå
    tillbaka till bibliotekskolumnen.




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.
                             23
  5. Temporeglage




Temporeglage: ställer in låtens uppspelningshastighet
genom att justera BPM-värdet.
  − För upp: spelar låten långsammare.
  − För ner: spelar låten snabbare.
  − Temporeglaget     i   mitten:     låtens   ursprungliga
    hastighet. Den vita LED-lampan lyser.


När Beatmatch Guide-funktionen är aktiverad anger de
visuella TEMPO-guiderna om du behöver föra upp eller
ner temporeglaget för att sakta ner eller snabba upp
låten. När de två röda pilarna är släckta är däckets
tempo identiskt med det andra däckets tempo.


Mer information om Beatmatch Guide-funktionen finns
under Beatmatch Guide.




                           24
När SYNC-läget är aktiverat i Serato DJ Lite och Serato
DJ Pro kan du trycka på SHIFT och samtidigt flytta på
temporeglaget för att justera temporeglagets värden
medan amplituden bibehålls.


Med en temposkala på ±8 %, eller 16 % amplitud, kan
du till exempel justera temporeglagets värden för att
täcka från 0 % (högsta) till -16 % (lägsta), vilket
fortfarande innebär 16 % amplitud, med -8 % i mitten.




                          25
RANGE*: ändra temporeglagens temposkala.
  − I DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
    ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − I Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): låser låtens tonart.
Tryck på SHIFT för att försäkra dig om att tonarten är
låst. RANGE-knappen lyser.




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.

                           26
  6. Pads och lägen




Lägesknappar: aktivera upp till åtta lägen.
Aktivera ett huvudläge genom att trycka på HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 eller SAMPLER 4.
Aktivera ett sekundärt läge (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7
och MODE 8) genom att trycka samtidigt på SHIFT och
HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 eller SAMPLER 4.
Lägesknappen blinkar.
Vilka lägen som är aktiverade på padsen varierar
beroende på programvaran som används.


Mer information om de olika lägena i DJUCED, Serato
DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro finns under Lägen och pads.


Pads: en pad utför en åtgärd.




                           27
  7. Uppspelningslägen




INSTRUMENTAL: spela enbart melodi-, bas-, och
trumdelarna av en låt. Detta är en genväg för Stems-
läget.
  − Tryck på INSTRUMENTAL-knappen för att enbart
    spela melodi-, bas-, och trumdelarna av en låt.
    Knappen tänds.
  − Tryck på INSTRUMENTAL-knappen igen för att
    fortsätta spela alla delar av en låt (sång, melodi, bas
    och trummor). Knappens lampa släcks.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: aktiverar Slip-läget. I Slip-
läget   fortsätter   uppspelningsindikatorn   framåt   i
bakgrunden när du lägger på en effekt eller en loop,
sätter ut en Cue-punkt, eller när du använder de
motoriserade skivtallrikarna. När du slutar lägga på en
effekt fortsätter uppspelningen från där låten skulle ha
varit om den hade fortsatt spela.
Tryck på SHIFT för att försäkra dig om att Slip-läget är
aktiverat. INSTRUMENTAL-knappen lyser.




Serato DJ Lite har inget Slip-läge.
Serato DJ Pro har ett Slip-läge.




                           29
VOCAL: spela enbart sångdelen av en låt. Detta är en
genväg för Stems-läget.
  − Tryck på VOCAL-knappen för att enbart spela
     sångdelen av en låt. Knappen tänds.
  − Tryck på VOCAL-knappen igen för att fortsätta
     spela alla delar av en låt (sång, melodi, bas och
     trummor). Knappens lampa släcks.


SHIFT + VOCAL: aktiverar kvantiseringsläget. Med
kvantisering kan du tillämpa en åtgärd på nästa taktslag i
beatgriden (spela upp låten, sätt ut en cuepunkt, starta
en loop...).
Tryck    på    SHIFT   för   att   försäkra   dig   om   att
kvantiseringsläget är aktiverat. VOCAL-knappen lyser.




 Serato DJ Lite har inget kvantiseringsläge.
 Serato DJ Pro har ett kvantiseringsläge.




                             30
      (pitch bend -) /         (pitch bend +): synkronisera
manuellt beatgriden för låten som spelas på detta däck
med det andra däckets beatgrid.
  − Håll in       för att sakta ner däcket tillfälligt.
  − Håll in       för att snabba upp däcket tillfälligt.




I Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro kan du använda
SHIFT +           och SHIFT +              för att justera
inställningarna i vissa lägen (Inställningar).




                             31
Mixning

  8. Monitorering, volym och Beatmatch Guide




MIC-volym: justerar volymen på mikrofonen.


Upplyst MIC-ring: anger nivån på ljudsignalen (VU-
mätare).
  − Av: ingen ljudsignal.
  − Grön: ljudsignalen spelas.
  − Röd: ljudsignalen är mättad.


MASTER-volym: justerar volymen på mixen som spelas
upp i dina högtalare.


MASTER VU-mätare: visar nivån på ljudsignalen för
Master-utgången (RCA eller XLR) för högtalare.


                            32
HEADPHONES-volym:
 −        /     : justerar signalen som spelas i dina
     hörlurar mellan Cue-utgången (för monitorering av
     däck 1 och 2) och Mix-utgången (Master-utgången).
       o Tryck på monitoreringsknapparna för däck 1
         och   2   om    du     enbart   vill   lyssna   på
         monitoreringen. Knapparna tänds. Ställ sedan
         in reglaget på Cue.
       o Tryck på Master-monitoreringsknappen för att
         enbart lyssna på Master-utgången. Knappen
         tänds. Ställ sedan in reglaget på Mix för att
         justera mixen som spelas i dina hörlurar.
 −        : justerar volymen på hörlursutgången




                           33
Monitorering: väljer ljudkällan som spelas upp i dina
hörlurar.
  −          (under MASTER VU-mätaren): spelar upp
       ljudet på mixen som även spelas högt för publiken.
  −         * (på båda sidorna av BEATMATCH GUIDE-
       knappen): spelar upp ljudet från däck 1 eller däck 2
       när Cue/Mix-knappen är inställd på Cue.
I Serato DJ Lite, tryck på SHIFT och                   * (bredvid
BEATMATCH          GUIDE-knappen)       för    att      modifiera
beatgriden för låten som spelas på detta däck. Klicka på
Edit     Grid   (Redigera     griden)    för     att      avsluta
beatgridredigeringsläget.




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.
                             34
BEATMATCH         GUIDE:         aktiverar     eller    inaktiverar
ljusguiderna för att justera tempot och synkronisera de
två låtarnas beatgrids. Det finns fyra röda pilar per däck.




DJUCED®        definierar        ett      av    däcken       som
mastersynkroniseringsdäck (Master Sync) och det
andra som slavdäck. De röda pilarna lyser endast på
slavdäcket,         eftersom           detta     däck       följer
mastersynkroniseringsdäckets tempo.
Serato         DJ         Lite            definierar        inget
mastersynkroniseringsdäck. De röda pilarna lyser på
båda däcken.




                               35
− Visuella TEMPO-guider: om en av de två röda
 pilarna till höger om ett temporeglage lyser innebär
 det att tempot (dvs. antalet taktslag per minut) på
 låten som spelas på detta däck skiljer sig från
 tempot på det andra däcket.
 Pilarna anger i vilken riktning du behöver föra
 temporeglaget för att justera tempot på låten som
 spelas så det matchar tempot på det andra däcket.
       o Den     övre     pilen       lyser:   för   upp
         temporeglaget. Detta saktar ner tempot.
       o Den     nedre        pilen   lyser:   för   ner
         temporeglaget. Detta ökar tempot.
       o Pilarna lyser        inte: däckets tempo är
         identiskt                                   med
         mastersynkroniseringsdäckets tempo.




                         36
− Visuella BEAT ALIGN-guider: om en av de två röda
  pilarna under en motoriserad skivtallrik lyser innebär
  det att taktslagen i låten som spelas på detta däck
  inte är synkroniserade med taktslagen på det andra
  däcket.
  Pilarna anger i vilken riktning du behöver snurra den
  motoriserade     skivtallriken   för   att   synkronisera
  taktslagen i låten som spelas med taktslagen på det
  andra däcket.
        o Vänster pil lyser: snurra den motoriserade
            skivtallriken medsols. Detta snabbar upp
            uppspelningshastigheten.
        o Höger pil lyser: snurra den motoriserade
            skivtallriken motsols. Detta saktar ner
            uppspelningshastigheten.
        o Pilarna lyser inte: däckets taktslag är
            synkroniserade med det andra däckets
            taktslag.




                          37
  9. Mixningssektion




GAIN-reglage*: justerar förstärkningen (dvs. volymnivån
innan volymregeln är inräknad).


Trebands equalizer (EQ)*: kontrollerar EQ-intensiteten.
Ett reglage är associerat med varje band: HIGH, MID
och LOW.


FILTER-reglage*: justerar frekvensen på de dubbla
filtren (högpass och lågpass).




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.
                             38
  10.   Mixer




VU-mätare: visar nivån på ljudsignalen för däck 1 och 2.


Volymregel*: justerar däckets volym.


Crossfader: skapa en övergång mellan två låtar genom
att höja volymen på det ena däcket och sänka volymen
på det andra.
  − Crossfadern längst till vänster: du hör endast låten
    på däck 1.
  − Crossfadern längst till höger: du hör endast låten på
    däck 2.
  − Crossfadern i mitten: du hör låtarna på däck 1 och 2
    samtidigt.


                           39
Kurvknapp: modifiera crossfaderkurvan.
  −       (mix): progressiv mixning av de två däcken.
  −       (scratch): mycket snabb mixning av de två
      däcken.
  −       (inaktiverad): crossfadern är inaktiverad, för att
      mixa med enbart volymreglarna.




Du kan modifiera crossfaderinställningarna i Serato DJ
Lite och Serato DJ Pro. Gå till Inställningar och sedan
Mixer:
 − Power (Kraftig): snabb kurva för att scratcha.
 − Linear (Linjär): progressiv kurva för att mixa.
 − Reverse (Omvänd): vänder om riktningen på
   crossfadern. Kallas även för ”Hamster”-läge.




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.

                            40
  11.     Effekter




För att visa effektracket:
  − I DJUCED: klicka på                         .
  − I Serato DJ Lite: klicka på                           .


Effektknappar           /               /            *:   välj       en    effekt   från
effektracket. Knappen tänds.
Använd effektspaken för att aktivera en effekt.
Välj en ny effekt i effektracket för att modifiera effekterna
som är kopplade till knapparna                                /     /     . I Serato DJ
Lite och Serato DJ Pro kan du även trycka på SHIFT och
  ,     eller   för att visa en lista med effekter och sedan
trycka på SHIFT och                 ,           eller             igen för att bläddra
igenom listan och välja den nya effekten.




I Serato DJ Lite:
− Det går att kombinera flera effekter samtidigt.
− De tre effekterna             /           /        till vänster tillämpas på
  det vänstra däcket (däck 1), medan de tre
  effekterna        /       /               till höger tillämpas på det
                                            41
  högra däcket (däck 2).
I Serato DJ Pro tillämpas de två grupperna med tre
effektknappar till de två virtuella däcken.


Effektspak*:       aktivera   en     effekt   som   laddats   på
knapparna      ,     eller    . Det finns tre olika positioner:
  − HOLD:      aktiverar      effekten    kontinuerligt   medan
      spaken är i denna position.
  − ON: aktiverar effekten tillfälligt medan spaken är i
      denna position.
  − Central position: effekten är inaktiverad.


DEPTH-reglage: justerar effektens intensitet.


  /      -knappar: justerar längden på effektcykeln
synkroniserat till musiken.




DJUCED har inte denna funktionalitet.




*Funktionaliteten är identisk på däck 1 och 2.

                                42
Kontakter




  12.    Master-utgång för högtalare (utgång 1-2)
  13.    Balanserad mikrofoningång
  14.    USB-B 2.0-port
  15.    POWER-knapp (strömknapp)
  16.    Kontakt för nätadapter
  17.    Hörlursutgång (utgång 3-4)


Master-utgång för högtalare (utgång 1-2): anslut
aktiva högtalare.
Format: Två obalanserade RCA (Cinch) och två
balanserade XLR.


Balanserad mikrofoningång: anslut en balanserad
eller obalanserad mikrofon.
Format: 6,35 mm-kontakt.




                           43
USB-B 2.0-port: anslut kontrollern till en dator.


Strömknapp: slå på och stäng av DJControl Inpulse T7-
kontrollern.


Kontakt för nätadapter: anslut strömkabeln och anslut
DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern till ett eluttag med hjälp
av adaptern.


Hörlursutgång (utgång 3-4): anslut hörlurar för att
monitorera låtar.
Format: 3,5 mm-stereominikontakt och 6,35 mm-
stereokontakt.




                            44
Dra ut de fyra indragbara fötterna för att höja upp
DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern och dra kablarna
under den.




− Dra in fötterna innan du transporterar DJControl
  Inpulse T7-kontrollern.
− Dra in fötterna när du inte använder DJControl
  Inpulse T7-kontrollern.
− När fötterna är utdragna ska du inte trycka ned
  DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern med mer än 5
  kg/50 newton.




                            45
 4.      Installation

Anslutningar
 1. Anslut    nätadaptern       till   DJControl      Inpulse T7-
   kontrollern.
 2. Anslut strömkabeln till nätadaptern och nätadaptern
   till ett eluttag.
 3. Anslut    USB-kabeln        till   DJControl      Inpulse T7-
   kontrollern och till datorn.
 4. Tryck på POWER-knappen (strömknappen) på
   DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern. Knappen trycks in.
 5. Kontrollera att högtalarna är avstängda eller, om de
   är anslutna till en extern förstärkare, att förstärkaren
   är avstängd. Anslut ingångarna på de aktiva
   högtalarna till Master-utgångarna på DJControl
   Inpulse T7-kontrollerns högtalare (två RCA eller två
   XLR).
 6. Sänk MASTER-volymen till den lägsta nivån på
   DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern och slå sedan på
   högtalarna.
 7. Häng hörlurarna runt halsen (ha dem inte på
   öronen)      och    anslut     hörlurarna   till    3,5   mm-
   minikontakten eller 6,35 mm-kontakten.
 8. Anslut mikrofonen till mikrofoningången (valfritt).




                                46
                  Nätaggregat
− Använd endast det nätaggregat som anges i
 användarmanualen.
− Använd    endast    nätaggregatet   med   den
 nätverksspänning och frekvens som anges på
 nätaggregatets märkplåt.



                       47
− Det går att använda båda utgångsformaten (XLR
 och RCA) samtidigt, till exempel genom att ansluta
 ett utgångspar till PA-systemet och ett andra
 utgångspar till monitorhögtalare.
− En LED-belysningssekvens som kallas Vegas Mode
 startar upp varje gång du ansluter DJControl
 Inpulse T7-kontrollern till din dator. Vegas Mode
 sker över fyra faser, vilket gör att den kan tända alla
 LED-lampor och visa olika möjliga färger på padsen
 och på BROWSER-encodernas bakgrundsbelysta
 ringar.




                           48
Ladda ner programvaran

DJUCED

 1. Gå till: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Ladda ner och installera DJUCED®.
 3. Gå till:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. Ladda ner och installera drivrutinspaketet för din
   dators operativsystem.
               o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
               o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
     Windows® kräver att du installerar drivrutinerna för
     att använda DJControl Inpulse T7 i ASIO-läget.
     Detta läge har mindre fördröjning och är generellt
     mer stabilt än WASAPI-läget.
     Med drivrutinerna kan du dessutom testa din
     DJControl       Inpulse T7-kontroller   och   verifiera
     firmwareversionen i både Windows® och macOS®.
 5. Starta DJUCED. Ett fönster öppnas och indikerar
   att din DJControl Inpulse T7-kontroller har upptäckts
   och är redo att användas.




                             49
 Första gången du kör programvaran hjälper DJUCED®
 dig att ansluta dina hörlurar och aktiva högtalare (eller
 låter dig använda datorns inbyggda högtalare om du
 inte   har    några   externa    aktiva   högtalare).   Följ
 informationen på skärmen steg för steg innan du
 sätter igång.


Ljudinställningar:
I DJUCED®, för att ändra ljudkortsinställningarna klickar
du på kugghjulet       i det övre högra hörnet av skärmen.
Inställningsmenyn visas.
Välj fliken Audio (Ljud) för att välja ljudkortet och tilldela
utgångarna för hörlurar och högtalare.


Standardinställningen för Windows® är följande:
  − Audio device (Ljudenhet): DJControl Inpulse T7
     ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Utgång):
              o Master: Outputs 1&2
              o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                             50
Standardinställningen för macOS® är följande:
  − Audio device (Ljudenhet): DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Utgång):
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Gå till: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Ladda ner och installera Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Gå till:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/.
 4. Ladda ner och installera drivrutinspaketet för din
   dators operativsystem.
               o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
               o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
     Windows® kräver att du installerar drivrutinerna för
     att använda DJControl Inpulse T7 i ASIO-läget.
     Detta läge har mindre fördröjning och är generellt
     mer stabilt än WASAPI-läget.
     Med drivrutinerna kan du dessutom testa din
     DJControl       Inpulse T7-kontroller   och   verifiera
     firmwareversionen i både Windows® och macOS®.




                             52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 inkluderar en licens för
Serato DJ Lite, men inte för Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite kan användas utan tidsgräns.
Om du installerar Serato DJ Pro istället för Serato DJ
Lite kommer Serato DJ Pro att fungera till DJControl
Inpulse T7 under en testperiod. Om du vill fortsätta
använda Serato DJ Pro när testperioden är över
måste du köpa en licens för Serato DJ Pro.




                          53
  5.     Liva upp din mix
Det finns olika sätt att liva upp din mix.



Lägen och pads

Pads

I DJUCED utför pads 1 till 8 åtgärderna som motsvarar
läget som är aktiverat.


I Serato DJ Lite utför pads 1 till 4 åtgärderna som
motsvarar läget som är aktiverat. Pads 5 till 8 utför
följande åtgärder:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (spela upp baklänges)
  − Pad 6: spola bakåt
  − Pad 7: spola framåt
  − Pad 8: Censor. Håll padden nedtryckt för att spela
     upp låten baklänges. När du släpper padden
     fortsätter uppspelningen från där låten skulle ha
     varit om den hade fortsatt spela normalt. Detta kan
     användas för att maskera svordomar och liknande i
     en sång.




                             54
Vilka lägen som är aktiverade på padsen varierar
beroende på programvaran som används:


Lägen DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

  1      Hot Cue        Hot Cue         Hot Cue

  2      Loop Roll     Auto Loop       Auto Loop
  3       Stems          Stems           Stems
  4      Sampler        Sampler         Sampler
  5      TonePlay           –           Pitch Play
  6       PadFX             –           Loop Roll
  7     Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
  8     BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro-licens ingår ej.




                           55
Hot Cue-läget

En Hot Cue-punkt är en markör (som ett bokmärke) som
du kan sätta ut i en låt för att enkelt hitta detta ögonblick
i låten igen och omedelbart återvända till den efteråt.


I DJUCED kan åtta Hot Cue-punkter sättas ut per låt.


I Serato DJ Lite kan fyra Hot Cue-punkter sättas ut per
låt.
I Serato DJ Pro kan åtta Hot Cue-punkter sättas ut per
låt.


   1. Tryck på HOT CUE 1 för att komma åt Hot Cue-
       läget. HOT CUE 1-knappens lampa förblir tänd.
   2. Sätt ut en Hot Cue-punkt genom att trycka på en
       pad.
   3. Spela upp låten från en Hot Cue-punkt genom att
       trycka på motsvarande pad.
   4. Ta bort en Hot Cue-punkt genom att trycka på
       SHIFT och padden samtidigt.




                             56
Loop-läget




I DJUCED motsvarar detta läge Loop Roll-läget.
Uppspelningsindikatorn fortsätter framåt i bakgrunden
när du lägger på en loop. När du inaktiverar loopen
fortsätter uppspelningen från där låten skulle ha varit
om den hade fortsatt spela.
I Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro motsvarar detta
läge Auto Loop-läget.


En loop är en del av låten som spelas upprepat.


  1. Tryck på LOOP 2 för att komma åt Loop-läget.
    LOOP 2-knappens lampa förblir tänd.


I DJUCED:
  2. Lägg på en loop genom att hålla en pad nedtryckt.
  3. Inaktivera en loop genom att släppa motsvarande
    pad.


I Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Lägg på en loop genom att trycka på en pad.
  3. Inaktivera en loop genom att trycka på motsvarande
    pad.

                           57
Looplängd:

Däck 1 / Däck 2       DJUCED            Serato DJ Lite

     Pad 1        1/16 av ett taktslag     1 taktslag
     Pad 2         ⅛ av ett taktslag       2 taktslag
     Pad 3         ¼ av ett taktslag       4 taktslag
     Pad 4         ½ av ett taktslag       8 taktslag
     Pad 5            1 taktslag               -
     Pad 6            2 taktslag               -
     Pad 7            4 taktslag               -
     Pad 8            8 taktslag               -




                          58
Stems-läget

Med Stems-läget kan du separera en låt i fyra olika delar
(sång och instrument) som kallas för ”stems”.


  1. Tryck på STEMS 3 för att komma åt Stems-läget.
    STEMS 3-knappens lampa förblir tänd.
  2. Pads 1 till 4 är var och en associerade med en
    stem. Sluta spela en stem genom att trycka på
    motsvarande pad. Paddens lampa släcks.
  3. Fortsätt spela stemmen genom att trycka på
    motsvarande pad. Padden tänds.


Stems:

     Däck 1 / Däck 2                   Stem

          Pad 1                        Sång
          Pad 2                       Melodi
          Pad 3                         Bas
          Pad 4                      Trummor




                           59
När du aktiverar stems i en låt för första gången sker
separationen inte alltid direkt. Det kan ta lite tid medan
DJ-programmet analyserar låten och genererar de
olika delarna (sång, melodi, bas, trummor).


Tänk på att låta tillräckligt med tid gå mellan
ögonblicket då du separerar stems och när du spelar
upp dem. När de olika delarna för stems har
genererats sker uppspelningen av stems omedelbart.


En kraftfull dator krävs för att använda Stems-läget.




                            60
Sampler-läget

Ett sample är ett kort ljud som spelas över den låt som
spelas upp: det kan antingen spelas en gång (jingle)
eller upprepas (loop).


I DJUCED används pads 1 till 8 för att spela de åtta
samples som finns i de första två raderna av den
flerlagriga samplern.
För att visa den flerlagriga samplern väljer du 2Decks
Horizontal + 2 Samplers i rullgardinsmenyn i den övre
vänstra delen av skärmen i DJUCED.


I Serato DJ Lite används pads 1 till 4 för att spela ett
sample.
Klicka på   i Serato DJ Lite för att visa samplespanelen.


  1. Tryck på SAMPLER 4 för att komma åt Sampler-
    läget. SAMPLER 4-knappens lampa förblir tänd.
  2. Spela ett sample genom att trycka på en pad.
  3. Sluta spela ett sample genom att trycka på SHIFT
    och motsvarande pad samtidigt.




                          61
Läge 5




Serato DJ Lite har inget läge 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro, kombinerat med pluginprogrammet
Pitch 'n Time, erbjuder ett Pitch Play-läge som
fungerar enligt samma princip som TonePlay-läget.


I DJUCED motsvarar läge 5 TonePlay-läget. Med detta
läge kan du spela om en Hot Cue-punkt i olika toner.


  1. Aktivera Hot Cue-läget och välj en Hot Cue-punkt.
  2. Tryck på SHIFT och HOT CUE 1 samtidigt för att
    komma åt läge 5. HOT CUE 1-knappen blinkar.
  3. Tryck på någon av pads 2 till 8 för att modifiera en
    Hot Cue-punkts ton.
  4. Tryck på pad 1 för att återgå till originaltonen.




                             62
Modifiera tonen:

    Däck 1 / Däck 2            Ton

          Pad 1            Originaltonen
          Pad 2                +1
          Pad 3                +2
          Pad 4                +3
          Pad 5                 -1
          Pad 6                 -2
          Pad 7                 -3
          Pad 8                 -4




                      63
Läge 6




 Serato DJ Lite har inget läge 6.


I DJUCED motsvarar läge 6 PadFX-läget. Med detta
läge kan du kontrollera effekterna i effektracket via
padsen.
En effekt är ibland ett filter eller en kombination av filter
som läggs på en låt för att modifiera dess ljud (eko,
reverb...).


Klicka på     för att visa effektracket.


  1. Tryck på SHIFT och LOOP 2 samtidigt för att
     komma åt läge 6. LOOP 2-knappen blinkar.
  2. Utför en åtgärd genom att trycka på en pad.
  3. Inaktivera   en    effekt    genom    att   trycka   på
     motsvarande pad (pad 1 till 3).




                             64
Möjliga åtgärder:

Däck 1 / Däck 2             Effekter

     Pad 1              Effekt 1 i racket
     Pad 2              Effekt 2 i racket
     Pad 3              Effekt 3 i racket
     Pad 4          Visar/döljer effektracket
     Pad 5          Ändrar effekt 1 i racket
     Pad 6          Ändrar effekt 2 i racket
     Pad 7          Ändrar effekt 3 i racket
     Pad 8                      -




                      65
Läge 7




I DJUCED motsvarar läge 7 Slicer Loop-läget. I
Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro motsvarar läge 7
Manual Loop-läget.


I DJUCED motsvarar läge 7 Slicer Loop-läget. Med
detta läge kan du dela upp den aktiva loopen i åtta
sektioner.


  1. Tryck på SHIFT och STEMS 3 samtidigt för att
    komma åt läge 7 (Slicer Loop). STEMS 3-knappen
    blinkar.
  2. Spela en sektion som en loop genom att hålla en
    pad nedtryckt.
  3. Sluta     spela   en   sektion   genom   att   släppa
    motsvarande pad.




                             66
I Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro motsvarar läge 7
Manual Loop-läget. Med detta läge kan du aktivera en
loop manuellt.


  1. Tryck på SHIFT och STEMS 3 samtidigt för att
    komma åt läge 7 (Manual Loop). STEMS 3-knappen
    blinkar.
  2. Utför en åtgärd genom att trycka på en pad.


Möjliga åtgärder:

   Däck 1/2                        Effekter

    Pad 1            Första trycket: anger inpunkten (IN)
                     Andra trycket: modifierar inpunkten

    Pad 2           Första trycket: anger utpunkten (OUT)
                     Andra trycket: modifierar utpunkten
                                    (OUT)

    Pad 3                Aktiverar/inaktiverar loopen
    Pad 4             Flyttar uppspelningsindikatorn till
                      början av loopen och spelar upp

 AUTOLOOP-            Ökar/minskar längden på loopen
   encoder




                             67
Läge 8




I DJUCED motsvarar läge 8 BeatJump-läget. I Serato
DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro motsvarar läge 8 Scratch
Banks-läget.


I DJUCED motsvarar läge 8 BeatJump-läget. Med detta
läge kan du göra ett kontrollerat hopp i låten.


  1. Tryck på SHIFT och SAMPLER 4 samtidigt för att
    komma åt läge 8 (BeatJump). SAMPLER 4-knappen
    blinkar.
  2. Hoppa genom att trycka på en pad.


Hoppets längd:

     Däck 1 / Däck 2                    Hopp

          Pad 1                  Gå tillbaka 1 taktslag
          Pad 2                   Gå fram 1 taktslag
          Pad 3                  Gå tillbaka 2 taktslag
          Pad 4                   Gå fram 2 taktslag
          Pad 5                  Gå tillbaka 4 taktslag
          Pad 6                   Gå fram 4 taktslag
          Pad 7                  Gå tillbaka 8 taktslag
          Pad 8                   Gå fram 8 taktslag


                            68
I Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro motsvarar läge 8
Scratch Banks-läget. Med detta läge kan du omedelbart
ladda ett scratchsample på däcket för att scratcha på
den motoriserade skivtallriken istället för låten som
spelas, och sedan snabbt gå tillbaka till låten som
spelas.
Klicka    på       i   Serato        DJ   Lite     för   att   visa
scratchsamplespanelen.


  1. Tryck på SHIFT och SAMPLER 4 samtidigt för att
    komma åt läge 8 (Scratch Banks). SAMPLER 4-
    knappen blinkar.
  2. Spela ett scratchsample genom att trycka på en
    pad.
  3. Tryck på SHIFT och motsvarande pad samtidigt för
    att sluta spela ett scratchsample och gå tillbaka till
    låten som spelades.


Samples:

     Däck 1 / Däck 2                        Sample

           Pad 1                                 Ahh!
           Pad 2                           Hey You!
           Pad 3                             Oww!
           Pad 4                             Yeah!




                                69
Scratcha
Att scratcha innebär att producera en ljudeffekt från en
låt genom att vrida på den motoriserade skivtallriken.


Sätt pekfingret på den motoriserade skivtallriken och gör
små, snabba rörelser till höger och vänster.


Du kan upprepa denna scratch flera gånger för att skapa
en rytm.




 − Se till att lägga en filtmatta mellan den motoriserade
   skivtallriken och vinylskivan innan du scratchar eller
   mixar.
 − Var inte för hårdhänt när du placerar vinylskivan på
   den motoriserade skivtallriken. Du riskerar att skada
   mitten av vinylskivan.




                            70
Filter
Justera låtars filter för att dämpa vissa frekvenser.


  − Dämpa      de    höga     frekvenserna     (kallas   för
    lågpassfilter): vrid filterreglaget (FILTER) åt vänster.
  − Dämpa       de    låga    frekvenserna     (kallas   för
    högpassfilter): vrid filterreglaget (FILTER) åt höger.




                             71
  6.         Flerkanaligt ljudkort
DJControl      Inpulse T7-kontrollern   har   ett   inbyggt
flerkanaligt ljudkort för att du ska kunna spela upp din
mix för publiken via högtalare (Master-utgången för
högtalare), monitorera nästa låt som du förbereder i dina
hörlurar (hörlursutgången) och använda en mikrofon
och/eller enhet utrustad med linjenivåutgång som
ljudkälla.




                             72
Master-utgång för högtalare (utgång 1-
2)
Dina aktiva högtalare måste anslutas till en av de två
Master-utgångarna för högtalare på baksidan av DJ-
kontrollern.




 Det går att använda båda utgångsformaten samtidigt,
 till exempel genom att ansluta ett utgångspar till PA-
 systemet      och   ett    andra    utgångspar     till
 monitorhögtalare.


                           73
Hörlursutgång (utgång 3-4)
Dina hörlurar måste anslutas till en av de två
hörlursutgångarna      på framsidan av DJ-kontrollern.




Varje gång DJ-kontrollern ansluts sätts hörlursutgången
som standard till utgång 3-4 så att den fungerar med alla
DJ-program på marknaden – inklusive och särskilt med
DJUCED® och Serato DJ Lite.


Men om du vill använda DJ-kontrollerns hörlursutgång
för att lyssna på musik på datorn med t.ex. iTunes,
måste du routa utgång 1-2 till hörlursutgången. Det gör
du genom att trycka på          -knappen under MASTER
VU-mätaren.




                           74
Det är inte rekommenderat att ansluta två par hörlurar
samtidigt (t.ex. ett par till 3,5 mm-miniutgången och ett
till 6,35 mm-utgången). Om inte båda hörlursparen har
samma     impedans     kommer      de   att   ha    olika
utgångsvolymer.




                           75
Mikrofoningång
Din mikrofon måste anslutas till mikrofoningången på
baksidan   av   DJ-kontrollern.   Mikrofoningången   är
balanserad.




                          76
Du kan ansluta en balanserad eller obalanserad
mikrofon. En balanserad mikrofon ger ett klarare och
kraftigare ljud med mindre andningseffekter. Om din
balanserade     mikrofon   inte   är   ansluten   via   en
balanserad kabel kommer mikrofonkabeln att sänka
kvaliteten på mikrofonljudet.


                    Balanserad kabel

           Tip (Spets)
                 Ring

        Sleeve (Hylsa)




                   Obalanserad kabel


           Tip (Spets)


        Sleeve (Hylsa)




                           77
  7.     Kompatibilitet

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Denna DJ-kontroller är plug and play och fungerar utan
drivrutiner med DJUCED på alla PC- och Mac-datorer
eftersom den överensstämmer med standarderna för
USB Audio och USB MIDI.



ASIO och Kontrollpanelen i Windows®
För att använda DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern med
Serato DJ Lite måste du installera ASIO-drivrutinerna.
ASIO-drivrutinerna finns här:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Om du använder DJUCED kan du även ladda ner
ASIO-drivrutinerna för att dra nytta av lägre fördröjning
på din PC.


ASIO-drivrutinerna kommer med en kontrollpanel som
går att komma åt från Aktivitetsfältet på PC eller i
katalogen C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ
Console Series\cpl2\. I denna panel kan du justera de
olika ASIO-inställningarna, inklusive buffertstorlekarna
och fördröjningen.


                           78
För att justera ASIO-inställningarna:
  − Ställ in ASIO-buffertstorleken till 4 eller 8 ms.
  − Starta programvaran (t.ex. DJUCED®) och välj
    DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)-drivrutinen:




När programvaran börjar använda ASIO-drivrutinen kan
ASIO-inställningarna     inte     längre     modifieras   i
kontrollpanelen. Detta är helt normalt och innebär att
ASIO-drivrutinen används.




                            79
Använd programvaran och lyssna noga efter eventuella
buggar eller artefakter i ljudet (klickande, poppande)
eller problem med fördröjningen. Om buggar eller
artefakter förekommer behöver du öka buffertstorleken
för att lösa problemen.


Stäng programvaran och justera din ASIO-buffert med
ett värde i taget:
  − Minska buffertstorleken för att minska fördröjningen.
  − Öka buffertstorleken om du märker av buggar eller
     artefakter i ljudet.


Upprepa denna procedur tills du hittar den optimala
buffertstorleken för ditt system.


Drivrutinerna finns här:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                             80
Firmwareuppdatering
Din        DJ-kontroller         har        ett    automatiskt
firmwareuppdateringsläge. Detta kräver att du installerar
Hercules     drivrutiner   och     följer   anvisningarna   på
skärmen. Firmwareuppdateringen sker automatiskt.


Drivrutinerna finns här:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Kontrollpanelen låter dig också komma åt denna
information och visa vilka drivrutinsversioner som är
installerade på din dator på fliken OM. Ha denna
information redo om du behöver kontakta Hercules
tekniska support.




                             81
Testa DJ-kontrollern i kontrollpanelen
I sektionen ABOUT (OM) i DJControl Inpulse T7:s
kontrollpanel kan du testa DJ-kontrollerns ljud, MIDI-
kontroller   och   belysning,   samt     de   motoriserade
skivtallrikarna.


Gå till följande katalog för att komma åt kontrollpanelen:
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\.



  1. Testa ljudet

För att testa om DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollerns
ljudgränssnitt producerar ljud (utan att använda DJ-
program) klickar du på högtalarikonen. Ikonen blir grön
under testet och programmet spelar upp ett ljud i Master-
utgångarna för högtalare och hörlurar.




                           82
  2. Testa MIDI-kontrollerna

För att testa om DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollerns MIDI-
kontroller fungerar (utan att använda DJ-program) kan
du pröva att använda de knappar eller andra kontroller
du vill testa. Om DIN-kontaktikonen blir grön innebär det
att MIDI-kommandot tas emot och knappen eller andra
kontroller fungerar som de ska.




                           83
  3. Testa belysningen

För att testa om DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollerns LED-
lampor fungerar (utan att använda DJ-program) klickar
du på glödlampan för att tända kontrollerns LED-lampor.
Ikonen blir grön under testet och kontrollerns LED-
lampor tänds.




Du kan även tända alla DJControl Inpulse T7-
kontrollerns LED-lampor genom att trycka samtidigt på
knapparna IN och OUT på båda däcken.




                          84
  4. Testa de motoriserade skivtallrikarna

För att testa om DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollerns
motoriserade skivtallrikar fungerar (utan att använda DJ-
program) klickar du på ikonen för skivtallrik 1 eller 2.
Ikonerna för motsvarande skivtallrik och DIN-kontakten
blir gröna under testet och den motoriserade skivtallriken
rör sig (snurrar) på kontrollern.


Test av motoriserad skivtallrik nr. 1:




Test av motoriserad skivtallrik nr. 2:




                             85
  8.     Demoläge
Detta läge är tillgängligt när du ansluter din DJ-kontroller
till ett nätaggregat och en USB-strömkälla utan en dator
och är särskilt utformat för att användas i butik. I detta
fall är DJ-kontrollern inte funktionell utan är i demoläge:
en demosekvens som tänder kontrollerns olika lampor
upprepar sig.




                            86
  9.     FAQ:s

 1.      Inget ljud kommer ut ur mina
      hörlurar.
Kontrollera att du har anslutit dina hörlurar på framsidan
av DJ-kontrollern, eftersom din DJ-kontroller är utrustad
med ett flerkanaligt ljudkort som är förkonfigurerat för att
fungera med DJUCED® och Serato DJ Lite.
Som    standard    är   de   två   monitoreringsknapparna
aktiverade första gången programvaran startar. Du kan
därefter välja valfritt däck att lyssna på i dina hörlurar,
eller trycka på         -knappen under MASTER VU-
mätaren för att lyssna på resultatet av din mix.




                             87
  2.     Ljudet       i   mina       hörlurar           är
    förvrängt eller för lågt.
Kontrollera att dina hörlurar har en TRS-kontakt
(standardhörlurar) och inte en TRRS-kontakt (hörlurar +
mikrofon).


       Tip (Spets)                     Tip (Spets)
             Ring                      Ring
                                       Ring
    Sleeve (Hylsa)
                                       Sleeve (Hylsa)




TRRS-kontakter är inte kompatibla med DJControl
Inpulse T7-kontrollern.




                          88
  3.       Inget ljud kommer ut ur mina
    högtalare.
Kontrollera att du har anslutit dina högtalare till RCA-
eller XLR-kontakterna på baksidan av DJ-kontrollern,
eftersom     din     DJ-kontroller    är     utrustad   med   ett
flerkanaligt ljudkort som är förkonfigurerat för att fungera
med DJUCED® och Serato DJ Lite.


För att testa (utan att använda DJ-program) om
DJControl           Inpulse T7-kontrollerns        ljudgränssnitt
producerar         ljud   kan    du        visa   DJ-kontrollerns
kontrollpanel. Klicka på fliken ABOUT (OM) och sedan
på högtalarikonen. Ikonen blir grön när ljud spelas.




                                89
 4.       Inget ljud kommer ut ur min
      bärbara dators högtalare.
Din DJ-kontroller är utrustad med ett förkonfigurerat
flerkanaligt ljudkort. Om du vill använda högtalarna som
är inbyggda i din bärbara dator:
  − I DJUCED®, gå till inställningarna och bocka för
      alternativet   SEND   MASTER     TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (SKICKA MASTERSIGNALEN TILL
      DATORHÖGTALARNA).




  − I Serato DJ Lite, gå till inställningarna, öppna fliken
      Audio (Ljud), och bocka för alternativet Use Laptop
      Speakers (Använd bärbara datorhögtalare).




                            90
 5.       Inget ljud kommer ut ur mina
      hörlurar eller min bärbara dators
      högtalare.
Som standard kommer ljudet från Master-utgången för
högtalare och från hörlursutgången. Därför är det
normalt att inget ljud kommer från din bärbara dator.


Om du vill använda högtalarna som är inbyggda i din
bärbara dator:
  − I DJUCED®, gå till inställningarna och bocka för
      alternativet   SEND    MASTER      TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS (SKICKA MASTERSIGNALEN TILL
      DATORHÖGTALARNA). Du måste ansluta dina
      hörlurar till DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern.




                             91
  − I Serato DJ Lite, gå till inställningarna, öppna fliken
    Audio (Ljud), och bocka för alternativet Use Laptop
    Speakers (Använd bärbara datorhögtalare). Du
    måste     ansluta     dina        hörlurar   till   DJControl
    Inpulse T7-kontrollern.




För att testa (utan att använda DJ-program) om
DJControl      Inpulse T7-kontrollerns              ljudgränssnitt
producerar    ljud      kan      du      visa    DJ-kontrollerns
kontrollpanel. Klicka på fliken ABOUT (OM) och sedan
på högtalarikonen. Ikonen blir grön när ljud spelas.




                              92
  6.     Jag     upplever        problem       med
    ljudkvaliteten i Windows®.

Volymen på låten som spelas är för låg

DJ-programmets     mastervolym    är   oberoende   av
volymkontrollerna på DJ-kontrollern. Så länge som DJ-
programmets mastervolym är låg kommer alltså även
volymen på Master-utgången att vara låg.

Kontrollera DJ-programmets volym och höj den vid
behov.

  − I DJUCED, använd volymknappen i den övre
    högra delen av fönstret.




  − I Serato DJ Lite, använd volymknappen i den övre
    högra delen av fönstret.




                          93
Volymen i mina hörlurar är för låg

I Serato DJ Lite, gå till inställningarna, öppna fliken
Audio (Ljud) och avbocka (avmarkera) Use Laptop
Speakers (Använd bärbara datorhögtalare).




                          94
Om du behöver ha kvar bocken (markeringen) på Use
Laptop Speakers (Använd bärbara datorhögtalare)
ställer     du    in    datorns        inbyggda    ljudkort     som
”Datorhögtalare”:
  1. Stäng Serato DJ Lite.
  2. Öppna Windows inställningar och gå till System
     och sedan Sound (Ljud).
  3. Välj     datorns    inbyggda       ljudkort   under      Output
     (Utgång). Din DJ-kontroller ska inte längre vara
     inställd som utgång.




Windows® kan ha ställt in din DJ-kontroller som
Windows® ljudkort. Om du behåller denna inställning kan
inställningen Use Laptop Speakers (Använd bärbara
datorhögtalare) spela upp Master-utgången i din DJ-
kontrollers      fyrkanaliga      utgång     (Master-utgång       +
hörlurar).




                                  95
Ljudet är otydligt

I DJUCED®:
Vi rekommenderar att du använder en ASIO-ljudenhet.
Med en WASAPI-enhet är ljudkvaliteten generellt sett
bra. Det kan dock vara mer fördröjning och ljudet kanske
är otydligt.


Gå till inställningarna, klicka på fliken Audio (Ljud) och
välj DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) som Audio
device (Ljudenhet).




I Serato DJ Lite:
Gå till inställningarna, öppna fliken Audio (Ljud) och
avbocka (avmarkera) Use Laptop Speakers (Använd
bärbara datorhögtalare).




                           96
  7.    Jag       kan     inte     ansluta       mina
    multimediahögtalare                  till      min
    DJControl Inpulse T7.
Om dina högtalares kontakter skiljer sig från kontakterna
på DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern kan du använda en
dubbel RCA till 3,5 mm-minikontaktadapter (ingår ej) för
att ansluta multimediahögtalare, en dubbel XLR till 6,35
mm-kontaktadapter (ingår ej) för att ansluta PA-
högtalare, eller något annat adapterformat som passar
dina högtalare.
Du kan även ansluta dina högtalare till hörlursutgången
och routa utgång 1-2 till utgång 3-4 genom att trycka på
    -knappen under MASTER VU-mätaren.



  8.    Är         DJControl             Inpulse T7-
    kontrollern kompatibel med en iPad
    eller iPhone?
Nej, DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern är inte kompatibel
med en iPad eller iPhone. Den fungerar enbart med en
PC eller Mac.




                           97
  9.     Hur      ansluter          jag    DJControl
    Inpulse T7-kontrollern till en USB-C-
    port eller en Thunderbolt 3-port?
Du kan ansluta DJControl Inpulse T7-kontrollern till en
USB-C-port eller Thunderbolt 3-port på tre olika sätt:
  − Genom att använda en adapter (USB-C [hane] eller
    Thunderbolt 3 till USB-A [hona]) mellan datorn och
    DJ-kontrollern. Observera att vissa billiga adaptrar
    inte kommer att fungera korrekt eftersom de tar upp
    en del av strömförsörjningen.
  − Genom att använda en docka (USB-C eller
    Thunderbolt 3) mellan datorn och DJ-kontrollern.
    Kontrollera att dockan har ett dedicerat nätaggregat.
    En docka som enbart drivs av USB-C- eller
    Thunderbolt 3-porten kanske inte har tillräckligt med
    ström.
  − Genom att ersätta den medföljande USB-kabeln
    med en USB-C eller Thunderbolt 3 till USB-B 2.0-
    kabel.




                            98
    TEKNISK SUPPORT
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Varumärken
Intel® och Intel Core™ är varumärken eller registrerade varumärken som
tillhör Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 är ett registrerat varumärke eller varumärke
som tillhör Microsoft Corporation i USA och/eller andra länder.
Mac® och macOS® är varumärken som tillhör Apple Inc., registrerade i
USA och andra länder.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite och Serato DJ Pro är registrerade varumärken
som tillhör Serato Audio Research Limited.
Varumärket DJUCED och DJUCED:s grafiska element tillhör Guillemot
Corporation.
ASIO är ett varumärke som tillhör Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH.
Alla andra varumärken och handelsnamn erkänns härmed i detta
dokument och tillhör sina respektive ägare. Illustrationer är inte bindande.
Innehåll, konstruktioner och specifikationer i detta dokument kan ändras
utan föregående meddelande och kan variera från land till land.




                                   100
Upphovsrättsskydd
Ingen del av denna manual får reproduceras, sammanfattas, överföras,
transkriberas, lagras i ett återvinningssystem, eller översättas till något
språk eller datorspråk, i någon form eller på något sätt, elektroniskt,
mekaniskt, magnetiskt, manuellt, via fotokopiering, inspelning, eller på
annat sätt, utan uttryckligt skriftligt samtycke från Guillemot Corporation
S.A.




                                   101
Licensavtal för slutanvändare för
DJUCED® och Serato DJ Lite
Läs noggrant igenom licensavtalet för DJUCED® och Serato DJ Lite som
visas under installationen.




                                102
Käyttöohje
              SISÄLLYSLUETTELO


1.   LAATIKON SISÄLTÖ .................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TEKNISET TIEDOT ..................................... 10

3.   OMINAISUUDET .......................................... 13

     Yleiskatsaus ....................................................13

     Dekit..................................................................14

     Miksaaminen ...................................................32

     Liittimet ............................................................43

4.   ASENNUS .................................................... 46

     Liittimet ............................................................46

     Ohjelmiston lataaminen ................................49

5.   MIKSAUKSEN ELÄVÖITTÄMINEN ............ 54

     Soittotilat ja esityspainikkeet .......................54

     Skrätsäys .........................................................70

     Filtterit ..............................................................71
6.   MONIKANAVAINEN ÄÄNIKORTTI ............. 72

     Master-lähtö kaiuttimille (lähtö 1-2) .............73

     Kuulokelähtö (lähtö 3-4) ................................74

     Mikrofonisyöte ................................................76

7.   YHTEENSOPIVUUS .................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO ja Windows®-ohjauspaneeli................78

     Laiteohjelmistopäivitys .................................81

     DJ-kontrollerin testaus ohjauspaneelissa .82

8.   DEMOTILA ................................................... 86

9.   UKK .............................................................. 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 on täydet ominaisuudet
sisältävä kontrolleri, joka on suunniteltu auttamaan
vinyylilevysoitinten   hallinnassa,   kiitos   sen   kahden
motorisoidun levylautasen, video-oppaiden ja DJUCED-
ja Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmiston integraation.




 Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 sisältää Serato DJ Lite
 -lisenssin, ei Serato DJ Pro -lisenssiä.
 Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistoa voi käyttää ilman aikarajaa.
 Jos asennat Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmiston Serato DJ
 Liten sijaan, Serato DJ Pro toimii DJControl Inpulse T7
 -kontrollerisi kanssa kokeilujakson ajan. Jos haluat
 kokeilujakson päätyttyä jatkaa Serato DJ Pro -
 ohjelmiston käyttöä, sinun täytyy ostaa Serato DJ Pro -
 lisenssi.
                             4
Saatavilla on    laaja kattaus   video-oppaita,   jotka
auttavat opettelemaan Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
-kontrollerilla miksaamisen:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (englanniksi):
        o Napsauta      DJUCED-ohjelmistossa         -
          kuvaketta.
        o DJUCED-sivustolla.
  − Hercules Audio YouTube -kanava (englanniksi).
  − The DJ Coach, kursseista vastaa DJ HAPA
    Serato DJ Litellä (englanniksi).




                           5
 1.    Laatikon sisältö

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Kaksi vinyylilevyä (7 tuumaa / 17,8 cm)
 − Kaksi huopaista levymattoa
 − Punottu USB-kaapeli
 − Irrotettava virtajohto
 − Virta-adapteri
 − Käyttöopas
 − Takuulappu




                            6
Voit   poistaa   Hercules       DJControl   Inpulse T7   -
kontrollerin VU-mittareiden suojakalvot. Voit myös
jättää suojakalvot paikalleen, sillä ne eivät vaikuta VU-
mittarien toimintaan.




                            7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Kaksi vinyylilevyä (7 tuumaa / 17,8 cm)
 − Kaksi huopaista levymattoa
 − Kaksi ohutta huopaista levymattoa
 − Punottu USB-kaapeli
 − Irrotettava virtajohto
 − Virta-adapteri
 − Kantolaukku
 − Käyttöopas
 − Takuulappu




Voit poistaa Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium
Edition -kontrollerin VU-mittareiden suojakalvot. Voit
myös jättää suojakalvot paikalleen, sillä ne eivät
vaikuta VU-mittarien toimintaan.




                            9
  2.     Tekniset tiedot
Järjestelmävaatimukset:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (englanniksi)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements (englanniksi)


Äänilähdöt:
              o Resoluutio = 24-bittinen
              o Näytetaajuus = 44,1 kHz


Master-lähdöt kaiuttimille (lähtö 1–2):
  − Kaksi RCA-liitintä:
              o Maksimilähtöteho = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Kaksi XLR-liitintä (balansoidut):
              o Maksimilähtöteho = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Kuulokelähtö (lähtö 3-4) yhden 3,5 mm stereo mini-jack -
liittimen ja yhden 6,35 mm stereo jack -liittimen kautta:
              o Maksimilähtöteho = 5 dBU / 32 Ω @ 1 kHz


Mikrofonisyöte yhden 6,35 mm jack-liittimen kautta
(balansoitu)



                             10
                       Virtalähde
− Käytä vain käyttöohjeessa ilmoitettua virtalähdettä.
− Käytä virtalähdettä ainoastaan verkkovirrassa, joka
  vastaa    virtalähteen     luokituslaatassa   ilmoitettua
  jännitettä ja taajuutta.




                             11
                    Virtalähteen tiedot
Julkistetut tiedot                Arvo             Yksikkö
Valmistajan nimi tai        GUILLEMOT
   tavaramerkki          CORPORATION S.A.
 Kaupparekisteri-      414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
    numero              2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
      Osoite                56910 Carentoir
                                 France
  Mallin tunniste           A481-1852590D
   Syöttöjännite                 100–240             V
  Vaihtosähkön                    50–60              Hz
  syöttötaajuus
   Lähtöjännite                   18,5              V DC
    Lähtövirta                     2,6               A
    Lähtöteho                     47,9               W
 Keskimääräinen                   87,8               %
   hyötysuhde
   Hyötysuhde                     87,8               %
    alhaisella
  kuormituksella
     (10 %)
Kuormittamattoman                 0,10               W
       tilan
 energiankulutus




                            12
 3.     Ominaisuudet

Yleiskatsaus




 1. Motorisoitu levylautanen
 2. Siirtymäpainikkeet (Play, Cue, Sync ja Shift)
 3. Luuppikomennot (Loop)
 4. Kappaleenvalinnan kontrollit (Browser, Load ja
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Temposäädin (Pitch fader)
 6. Esityspainikkeet ja soittotilat
 7. Toistotilat
 8. Monitorointi,        äänenvoimakkuus        (Master,
      kuulokkeet ja mikrofoni) ja Beatmatch Guide
 9. Miksausosio (Gain, EQ ja Filter)
 10. Mikseri      (crossfader    ja   äänenvoimakkuuden
      liukusäätimet)
 11. Efektit



                            13
Dekit

  1. Motorisoitu levylautanen




Huopainen       levymatto:        Asetetaan        motorisoidun
levylautasen    ja   vinyylilevyn     väliin.   Se     suojelee
vinyylilevyä   hankautumasta        levylautasta     vasten   ja
vähentää tärinää levyä soitettaessa.




 Muista aina pistää huopainen levymatto levylautaselle,
 ennen kuin asetat sille vinyylilevyä.




                             14
Vinyylilevy: Skrätsää, nopeuta tai hidasta toistoa ja liiku
kappaleen sisällä.
Vinyylilevyn   etiketissä    oleva   viiva   on   viitemerkki
miksausta ja skrätsäystä varten.


Suoritettu toiminto riippuu kahdesta kriteeristä:
  − kappaletta toistetaan tai se on tauotettu;
  − vinyylilevyjen      kosketuskohta   (päältä     (top)   tai
    reunalta (ring)).


                            Päältä




  Reunalta




                             15
Vinyylilevyjen toiminnot Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro
-ohjelmistossa:


                         Motorisoitu
   Toisto/tauko                            SHIFT-painike
                        levylautanen
      Toisto                Päältä                  -
                          Skrätsäys
      Toisto           Päältä/reunalta          Painettuna
                  Liiku nopeasti kappaleessa
      Toisto              Reunalta                  -
                  Nopeuta tai hidasta toistoa
      Tauko            Päältä/reunalta              -
                  Liiku hitaasti kappaleessa
      Tauko            Päältä/reunalta          Painettuna
                  Liiku nopeasti kappaleessa




                             16
Vinyylilevyjen toiminnot DJUCED-ohjelmistossa:


                      Motorisoitu
   Toisto/tauko                         SHIFT-painike
                     levylautanen
      Toisto             Päältä                  -
                       Skrätsäys
      Toisto        Päältä/reunalta          Painettuna
               Liiku nopeasti kappaleessa
      Toisto           Reunalta                  -
               Nopeuta tai hidasta toistoa
      Tauko            Reunalta                  -
               Liiku hitaasti kappaleessa




                          17
Motorisoitu levylautanen: Pyörittää vinyylilevyä, joka
hallitsee    kappaleen       toistoa   ja     nopeutta      tempon
liukusäädinten asetusten mukaan.


Kun Beatmatch Guide -toiminto on käytössä, visuaaliset
BEAT ALIGN -opasteet ilmoittavat, mihin suuntaan
motorisoidun       levylautasen      reunaa    (eli   kehää)    on
käännettävä, jotta molempien kappaleiden tahtiruudukot
vastaavat toisiaan. Kun punaiset nuolet eivät pala,
tahtiruudukot ovat kohdallaan.


Lisää     tietoa   Beatmatch      Guide       -toiminnosta     saa
lukemalla Beatmatch Guide -osion.




 Levylautasten moottoria ei voi pistää pois päältä.




   – Kun       motorisoitu     levylautanen       pyörii,    vältä
        pitämästä sitä paikallaan todella pitkään, jotta
        vältät rikkomasta vetojärjestelmää.
   – Älä pakota vinyyliä motorisoidulle lautaselle.
        Vinyylilevyn keskiö voi vahingoittua.




                                18
  2. Siirtymäpainikkeet




SHIFT: Yhdistetty komento. Esimerkki:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): Lukitsee kappaleen
    sävellajin.
  − SHIFT     +   IN:     Jaa     (DJUCED®-ohjelmistossa)
    aktiivisen luupin pituus puoliksi.


SYNC:    Ota käyttöön tai         poista käytöstä kahden
kappaleen    BPM        (beats    per    minute)   -arvojen
automaattinen synkronointi.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o DJUCED: Aseta dekki pääsynkronointidekiksi
        (Master Sync).
      o Serato DJ Lite: Poista synkronointi dekiltä.




                             19
CUE: Aseta kappaleen merkkipiste, jolla voi tunnistaa
tietyn kohdan kappaleesta, tai liikuta dekin soittokohta
merkkipisteen kohdalle.
  − Kappale on tauotettu: Aseta merkkipiste kappaleen
    pysäytyskohtaan.
  − Kappale    soi:    Pysäytä     toisto    ja     siirrä   dekin
    soittokohta merkkipisteeseen.
      o DJUCED: Jos merkkipistettä ei ole määritetty,
         CUE-painikkeen painaminen pysäyttää toiston
         ja asettaa merkkipisteen soittokohdan paikalle.
      o Serato DJ Lite: Jos merkkipistettä ei ole
         määritetty,      CUE-painikkeen             painaminen
         pysäyttää toiston ja asettaa merkkipisteen
         kappaleen alkuun.
  − CUE + PLAY: Siirrä soittokohta merkkipisteeseen ja
    toista kappaletta siitä kohtaa.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o DJUCED: Siirrä dekin soittokohta kappaleen
         alkuun ja pysäytä toisto.
      o Serato    DJ    Lite:    Siirrä     dekin     soittokohta
         kappaleen alkuun ja aloita toisto.


Toisto/tauko: Toista kappaletta tai aseta se tauolle.
  − CUE + PLAY: Siirrä soittokohta Serato DJ Litessä
    merkkipisteeseen ja toista kappaletta siitä kohtaa.




                            20
  3. Luuppikomennot




AUTOLOOP-valintanuppi:
  − Paina valintanuppia: Ota luupin toisto käyttöön tai
    poista se käytöstä.
  − Pyöritä valintanuppia: Säädä luupin pituutta.


IN/OUT: Ota luuppi käyttöön valitsemalla alkupiste (IN)
ja päätepiste (OUT).
Kun luuppi on aktiivinen (eli käytössä):
  − Paina IN (painike vilkkuu) ja käännä motorisoitua
    levylautasta liikuttaaksesi luupin alkupistettä.
  − Paina OUT (painike vilkkuu) ja käännä motorisoitua
    levylautasta liikuttaaksesi luupin päätepistettä.
Poistu luupista painamalla AUTOLOOP-valintanuppia.
DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: Jaa aktiivisen luupin pituus puoliksi.
  − SHIFT + OUT: Kerro aktiivisen luupin pituus
    kahdella.
  − IN (pitkä painallus): Ota neljän tahdin luuppi
    käyttöön.



                            21
  4. Kappaleenvalinnan kontrollit




BROWSER-valintanuppi*: Selaa musiikkikirjastoa ja
kappalelistaa kääntämällä valintanuppia vasemmalle
(ylös) tai oikealle (alas).
Paina     valintanuppia       valitaksesi   hakemiston   ja
ladataksesi valitun kappaleen kohdedekille.


Valaistu reuna:
  − Esittää DJUCED-ohjelmistossa Master-kappaleen
     energiatason tempolle.
  − Esittää Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa rytmin. Valo
     vilkkuu kappaleen rytmin tahdissa:
            o Punainen: Kertoo ensimmäisen iskun.
            o Sininen: Kertoo seuraavat kolme iskua.




                               22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − DJUCED-ohjelmistossa paneeli ehdottaa parhaiten
     miksaukseesi sopivia kappaleita.
     Liiku suositeltujen kappaleiden listalla kääntämällä
     BROWSER-valintanuppia.
     Valitse        kappale    painamalla      BROWSER-
     valintanuppia. Dekille jo ladatun kappaleen täytyy
     olla tauotettuna.
     Säädä     ehdotettavien   kappaleiden    energiatasoa
     painamalla          ASSIST./PREP. -painiketta      ja
     kääntämällä valintanuppia.
  − Se lisää Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa sillä hetkellä
     soitettavan kappaleen Prepare (Valmistelu) -listalle.
     SHIFT      +      ASSIST./PREP.:       Avaa   Prepare
     (Valmistelu) -paneeli.


BACK*: Liiku DJUCED- ja Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmiston
hakemistorakenteessa.
  − Palaa DJUCED-ohjelmistossa kirjastosarakkeelle
     painamalla SHIFT- ja BACK-painiketta.




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.
                            23
  5. Temposäädin




Temposäädin:       Määritä        kappaleen    toistonopeus
säätämällä BPM-arvoa.
  − Liikuta ylös: Kappaleen toisto hidastuu.
  − Liikuta alas: Kappaleen toisto nopeutuu.
  − Temposäädin keskellä: Kappaleen alkuperäinen
    nopeus. Valkoinen LED-valo palaa.


Kun Beatmatch Guide -toiminto on käytössä, visuaaliset
TEMPO-opasteet ilmoittavat pitääkö sinun liikuttaa
liukusäädintä ylös vai alas, jotta hidastat tai nopeutat
kappaletta. Kun punaiset nuolet sammuvat, kyseisen
dekin tempo on identtinen toisen dekin kanssa.


Lisää   tietoa   Beatmatch    Guide      -toiminnosta   saa
lukemalla Beatmatch Guide -osion.




                             24
Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa (SYNC-
tilan ollessa käytössä) temposäätimen liikuttaminen
SHIFT-painikkeen       ollessa         painettuna    sallii
temposäädinten     arvojen        muuttamisen   amplitudin
säilyessä.


Esimerkiksi, kun temposkaala on ±8 %, eli amplitudi on
16 %, voit siirtää temposäätimen arvot välille 0 %
(maksimi) – -16 % (minimi), jolloin tuloksena on edelleen
16 %:n amplitudi, kun säätimen keskikohtana on -8 %.




                             25
RANGE*: Sallii temposäädinten temposkaalan vaihdon.
  − DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
     ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): Lukitsee kappaleen
sävellajin.
Varmista sävellajin lukitus painamalla SHIFT. RANGE-
painikkeen valo syttyy.




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.

                             26
  6. Esityspainikkeet ja soittotilat




Tilapainikkeet: Ota jopa kahdeksan eri soittotilaa
käyttöön.
Ota päätila käyttöön painamalla joko HOT CUE 1, LOOP
2, STEMS 3 tai SAMPLER 4.
Ota toissijainen tila (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7 ja
MODE 8) käyttöön painamalla yhtä aikaa SHIFT ja joko
HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 tai SAMPLER 4.
Tilapainike vilkkuu.
Esityspainikkeille valitut soittotilat vaihtelevat käytetyn
ohjelmiston mukaan.


Lisää tietoa DJUCED-, Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro
-ohjelmiston eri soittotiloista saa lukemalla Soittotilat ja
esityspainikkeet -osion.


Esityspainikkeet: Painike suorittaa toiminnon.




                            27
  7. Toistotilat




INSTRUMENTAL: Toista kappaleesta vain melodian,
basson ja rumpujen osat. Tämä on oikotie Stems-tilaan.
  − Paina      INSTRUMENTAL-painiketta        toistaaksesi
    kappaleesta vain melodian, basson ja rumpujen
    osat. Painikkeen valo syttyy.
  − Palaa kappaleen kaikkien osien toistoon (laulu,
    melodia,       basso   ja       rummut)   painamalla
    INSTRUMENTAL-painiketta uudelleen. Painikkeen
    valo sammuu.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: Ota Slip-tila käyttöön. Slip-
tilassa dekin soittokohta jatkaa etenemistään taustalla,
kun efekti tai luuppi on           käytössä, merkkipistettä
asetetaan tai motorisoituja hakupyöriä käytetään. Kun
poistat efektin käytöstä, soitto jatkuu siitä pisteestä,
missä kappale olisi ollut, jos se olisi jatkanut soimistaan.
Varmista      Slip-tilan   käyttö        painamalla   SHIFT.
INSTRUMENTAL-painikkeen valo syttyy.




 Serato DJ Lite ei sisällä Slip-tilaa.
 Serato DJ Pro sisältää Slip-tilan.




                              29
VOCAL: Toista vain kappaleen lauluosio. Tämä on
oikotie Stems-tilaan.
  − Paina         VOCAL-painiketta         toistaaksesi     vain
    kappaleen lauluosion. Painikkeen valo syttyy.
  − Palaa kappaleen kaikkien osien toistoon (laulu,
    melodia, basso ja rummut) painamalla VOCAL-
    painiketta uudelleen. Painikkeen valo sammuu.


SHIFT      +     VOCAL:         Ota   Quantize-tila     käyttöön.
Kvantisointi sallii toiminnon käyttämisen seuraavalle
ruudukon tahdille (toista kappale, aseta merkkipiste,
käynnistä luuppi...).
Varmista       Quantize-tilan     käyttö   painamalla     SHIFT.
VOCAL-painikkeen valo syttyy.




 Serato DJ Lite ei sisällä Quantize-tilaa.
 Serato DJ Pro sisältää Quantize-tilan.




                                 30
       (pitch bend -) /              (pitch bend +): Säädä tällä
dekillä soivan kappaleen tahtiruudukko manuaalisesti
toisen dekin tahtiruudukon kanssa yhteneväiseksi.
    − Hidasta   dekkiä           hetkellisesti   pitämällä
      painettuna.
    − Nopeuta       dekkiä       hetkellisesti   pitämällä
      painettuna.




Voit Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
muokata tiettyjä tiloja (asetuksia) painamalla SHIFT
+       ja SHIFT +           .




                                   31
Miksaaminen

  8. Monitorointi,         äänenvoimakkuus              ja
     Beatmatch Guide




MIC-äänenvoimakkuus:                Säädä       mikrofonin
äänenvoimakkuutta.


Valaistu MIC-rengas: Kertoo äänisignaalin tason (VU-
mittari).
  − Pois: Äänisignaalia ei ole.
  − Vihreä: Äänisignaalia toistetaan.
  − Punainen: Äänisignaali on säröllä.


MASTER-äänenvoimakkuus:              Säädä     kaiuttimista
soitettavan miksauksen äänenvoimakkuutta.


MASTER VU      -mittari:   Esittää    Master-lähtösignaalin
(RCA tai XLR) tason kaiuttimille.
                           32
HEADPHONES-äänenvoimakkuus:
 −         /       :   Säädä    kuulokkeista   toistettavaa
     signaalia, säädä Cue-lähdön (dekkien 1 ja 2
     monitoroinnin) ja Mix-lähdön (Master-lähtö) tasoja.
       o Kuuntele pelkästään monitoroitavaa dekkiä
         painamalla        dekkien         1     ja        2
         monitorointipainikkeita.    Painikkeiden     valot
         syttyvät. Aseta nuppi sitten Cue-kohtaan.
       o Kuuntele pelkästään Master-lähtöä painamalla
         Masterin monitorointipainiketta. Painikkeen valo
         syttyy.   Aseta    nuppi    sitten    Mix-kohtaan
         säätääksesi        kuulokkeista        soitettavaa
         miksausta.
 −        : Säädä kuulokelähdön äänenvoimakkuutta.




                           33
Monitorointi: Valitse kuulokkeista toistettava äänilähde.
  −         (MASTER VU -mittarin alla): Toista ääntä
      yleisölle kovaa soitettavasta miksauksesta.
  −       * (löytyy BEATMATCH GUIDE -painikkeen
      molemmilta puolilta): Toista ääntä dekiltä 1 tai 2,
      kun Cue/Mix-painike on kohdassa Cue.
Paina Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa SHIFT ja                *
(BEATMATCH          GUIDE          -painikkeen      vieressä)
muokataksesi     tällä   dekillä    soitettavan   kappaleen
tahtiruudukkoa. Poistu tahtiruudukon muokkauksesta
napsauttamalla Edit Grid (Muokkaa ruudukkoa).




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: Ota käyttöön tai poista käytöstä
valo-oppaat, joiden mukaan voit säätää tempoa tai
yhdistää kahden kappaleen tahtiruudukot. Dekkiä kohti
löytyy neljä punaista nuolta.




DJUCED®           määrittää          toisen         dekeistä
pääsynkronointidekiksi     (Master     Sync)   ja     toisen
alisteiseksi dekiksi. Punaiset nuolet syttyvät vain
alisteiselle dekille, sillä se seuraa pääsynkronointidekin
tempoa.
Serato DJ Lite ei määritä pääsynkronointidekkiä.
Punaiset nuolet syttyvät molemmille dekeille.




                            35
− Visuaaliset TEMPO-opasteet: Jos yksi kahdesta
 temposäätimen           oikealla      puolella    olevasta
 punaisesta nuolesta syttyy, se tarkoittaa sillä dekillä
 soitetun kappaleen tempon (eli iskujen määrän
 minuuttia kohti) poikkeavan toisen dekin temposta.
 Nuolet      kertovat,      mihin      suuntaan     tempon
 liukusäädintä on liikutettava, jotta kappaleen tempo
 voidaan säätää vastaamaan toisella dekillä soivaa
 kappaletta.
          o Ylänuoli     palaa:     Liikuta   temposäädintä
            ylöspäin. Tämä hidastaa tempoa.
          o Alanuoli     palaa:     Liikuta   temposäädintä
            alaspäin. Tämä nopeuttaa tempoa.
          o Nuolet eivät pala: Dekin tempo on sama
            kuin pääsynkronointidekin tempo.




                           36
− Visuaaliset BEAT ALIGN -opasteet: Jos yksi
 kahdesta motorisoidun levylautasen alla olevasta
 punaisesta nuolesta syttyy, se tarkoittaa, etteivät
 sillä dekillä soitetun kappaleen rytmit soi tahdissa
 toisen dekin rytmien kanssa.
 Nuolet ilmoittavat mihin suuntaan motorisoitua
 levylautasta    on   käännettävä,    jotta    soitettavan
 kappaleen rytmit ovat tahdissa toisen dekin rytmien
 kanssa.
       o Vasen nuoli palaa: Käännä motorisoitua
           levylautasta        myötäpäivään.        Tämä
           nopeuttaa toistoa hetkellisesti.
       o Oikea nuoli palaa: Käännä motorisoitua
           levylautasta vastapäivään. Tämä hidastaa
           toistoa hetkellisesti.
       o Nuolet eivät pala: Dekin rytmit soivat
           tahdissa toisen dekin rytmien kanssa.




                          37
  9. Miksausosio




GAIN-nuppi*:          Säädä          vahvistusta      (eli
äänenvoimakkuutta         ennen       äänenvoimakkuuden
liukusäätimiä).


Kolmikaistainen       taajuuskorjain       (EQ)*:   Säädä
taajuuskorjaimia. Yksi nuppi jokaiselle taajuusalueelle:
HIGH, MID ja LOW.


FILTER-nuppi*: Säädä kahden filtterin taajuutta (high-
pass ja low-pass).




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.
                            38
  10.     Mikseri




VU-mittari: Esittää dekkien 1 ja 2 äänisignaalin tason.


Äänenvoimakkuuden           liukusäädin*:    Säädä   dekin
äänenvoimakkuutta.


Crossfader-liukusäädin: Voit siirtyä kahden kappaleen
välillä   lisäämällä   toisen    dekin   äänenvoimakkuutta
samalla, kun toisen äänenvoimakkuus laskee.
   − Crossfader on täysin vasemmassa laidassa: Kuulet
     vain kappaleen dekiltä 1.
   − Crossfader on täysin oikeassa laidassa: Kuulet vain
     kappaleen dekiltä 2.
   − Crossfader on keskellä: Kuulet yhtä aikaa kappaleet
     sekä dekiltä 1 että dekiltä 2.

                                39
Käyräkytkin:          Muokkaa        crossfader-liukusäätimen
käyrää.
  −          (mix):   Progressiivista    miksausta      kahdella
      dekillä.
  −        (scratch): Todella nopeaa miksausta kahdella
      dekillä.
  −         (poissa    käytöstä):    Crossfader    on    poissa
      käytöstä,        miksaus          tapahtuu         pelkillä
      äänenvoimakkuuden liukusäätimillä.




Voit Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
muokata crossfader-liukusäätimen asetuksia. Mene
asetuksiin ja avaa sitten Mixer:
 − Power (Voimakas): Jyrkkä käyrä skrätsäystä varten.
 − Linear        (Lineaarinen):     Progressiivinen      käyrä
   miksaamista varten.
 − Reverse        (Käänteinen):     Crossfader-liukusäätimen
   käänteinen suunta, tunnetaan myös Hamster-tilana.




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.

                              40
  11.    Efektit




Avaa efektilista:
  − DJUCED: Napsauta              .
  − Serato DJ Lite: Napsauta               .


Efektipainikkeet          /        /           *:         Valitse   efekti
efektilistalta. Painikkeen valo syttyy.
Ota efekti käyttöön käyttämällä esitysvipua.
Valitse uusi efekti efektilistalta muokataksesi seuraaviin
painikkeisiin liitettyjä efektejä:         /         /      . Voit Serato
DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa painaa myös
SHIFT ja     ,      tai   nähdäksesi efektilistan ja painaa
sitten uudelleen SHIFT ja              ,            tai       liikkuaksesi
listalla ja valitaksesi uuden efektin.




Serato DJ Lite:
− Usean efektin voi yhdistää samanaikaisesti.


                              41
− Kolme efektiä           /        /           vasemmalla ovat
  vasemmanpuoleisen dekin (dekki 1) käytössä ja
  kolme      efektiä          /        /             oikealla     ovat
  oikeanpuoleisen dekin (dekki 2) käytössä.
Serato     DJ   Pro    -ohjelmistossa                kaksi      kolmen
painikkeen efektijoukkoa ovat kahden virtuaalidekin
käytössä.


Esitysvipu*: Ota painikkeelle              ,   tai      asetettu efekti
käyttöön. Tarjolla on kolme eri asentoa:
  − HOLD: Efekti on jatkuvassa käytössä, kun vipu on
       tässä asennossa.
  − ON: Efekti on hetkellisessä käytössä, kun vipu on
       tässä asennossa.
  − Keskiasento: Efekti ei ole käytössä.


DEPTH-nuppi: Säädä efektin voimakkuutta.


  -/     -painike: Säädä musiikin kanssa synkronoidun
efektisyklin kestoa.




DJUCED ei sisällä tätä toimintoa.




* Dekit 1 ja 2 toimivat samalla tavalla.

                                  42
Liittimet




  12.     Master-lähtö kaiuttimille (lähtö 1–2)
  13.     Balansoitu mikrofonisyöte
  14.     USB-B 2.0 -portti
  15.     POWER-painike
  16.     Liitin virta-adapterille
  17.     Kuulokelähtö (lähtö 3–4)


Master-lähtö kaiuttimille (lähtö 1–2): Voit yhdistää
aktiivikaiuttimet.
Liitintyyppi:   2 x balansoimaton     RCA         (Cinch)   ja
2 x balansoitu XLR.


Balansoitu mikrofonisyöte: Yhdistä balansoitu tai
balansoimaton mikrofoni.
Liitintyyppi: 6,35 mm jack-liitin




                               43
USB-B        2.0 -portti:     Voit   yhdistää      kontrollerin
tietokoneeseen.


POWER-painike:         Aseta     DJControl      Inpulse T7      -
kontrolleri päälle ja pois.


Liitin   virta-adapterille:     Yhdistä   virtajohto   ja    liitä
DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleri sähköpistokkeeseen
käyttämällä adapteria.


Kuulokelähtö (lähtö 3-4): Voit yhdistää kuulokkeet,
joilla monitoroit kappaleita.
Liitintyypit: 3,5 mm stereo mini-jack -liitin ja 6,35 mm
stereo jack -liitin.




                                44
Kohota DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria avaamalla
neljä taivutettavaa jalkaa ja aseta johdot sen alle.




− Käännä jalat sisään ennen DJControl Inpulse T7 -
  kontrollerin kuljettamista.
− Käännä jalat sisään, kun et käytä DJControl
  Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria.
− Kun jalat ovat ojennettuina, älä paina DJControl
  Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria alaspäin yli 5 kg:n painolla
  tai 50 newtonin voimalla.




                              45
  4.     Asennus

Liittimet
 1. Yhdistä    virta-adapteri         DJControl        Inpulse T7      -
   kontrolleriin.
 2. Yhdistä    virtajohto        virta-adapteriin           ja    sitten
   sähköpistokkeeseen.
 3. Yhdistä    USB-kaapeli            DJControl        Inpulse T7      -
   kontrolleriin ja tietokoneeseen.
 4. Paina DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin POWER-
   painiketta. Painike painetaan sisään.
 5. Varmista, että kaiuttimien virta on pois päältä tai, jos
   ne     on        yhdistetty        ulkoiseen        vahvistimeen,
   vahvistimen        virta      on     pois      päältä.        Yhdistä
   aktiivikaiuttimien syötteet DJControl Inpulse T7 -
   kontrollerin Master-lähtöihin (2 x RCA tai 2 x XLR).
 6. Säädä DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin MASTER-
   äänenvoimakkuus            minimitasolle       ja    pistä     sitten
   kaiuttimet päälle.
 7. Aseta kuulokkeet kaulalle (älä korville) ja yhdistä
   sitten kuulokkeet 3,5 mm mini-jack-liittimeen tai 6,35
   mm jack-liittimeen.
 8. Yhdistä     mikrofoni             mikrofonin        syötteeseen
   (valinnainen).




                                 46
                       Virtalähde
− Käytä vain käyttöohjeessa ilmoitettua virtalähdettä.
− Käytä virtalähdettä ainoastaan verkkovirrassa, joka
  vastaa    virtalähteen     luokituslaatassa   ilmoitettua
  jännitettä ja taajuutta.



                              47
− Molempia lähtöformaatteja (XLR ja RCA) voi
  käyttää yhtä aikaa – yhdistämällä esimerkiksi toisen
  lähtöparin PA-järjestelmään ja toisen lähtöparin
  monitorikaiuttimiin.
− LED-valaisusekvenssi,       jota     kutsutaan   nimellä
  Vegas Mode, käynnistyy joka kerta, kun yhdistät
  DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin tietokoneeseen.
  Vegas Mode suoritetaan neljässä vaiheessa, jotta
  se    valaisee    kaikki        LED-valot   ja   näyttää
  esityspainikkeiden ja taustavalaistujen BROWSER-
  säätönuppien kaikki mahdolliset värit.




                             48
Ohjelmiston lataaminen

DJUCED

 1. Käy osoitteessa:
   https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Lataa ja asenna DJUCED®.
 3. Käy osoitteessa:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (englanniksi).
 4. Lataa      ja     asenna         ajuripaketti       tietokoneen
   käyttöjärjestelmälle.
             o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
             o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®          vaatii   ajurien     asennuksen,          jotta
    DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria voi                  käyttää
    ASIO-tilassa, mikä vähentää latenssia WASAPI-
    tilaan verrattuna ja on yleisesti ottaen vakaampi.
    Ajurit    antavat     sinun     myös      testata    DJControl
    Inpulse T7           -kontrolleria         ja        varmistaa
    laiteohjelmiston       version     sekä     Windows®-       että
    macOS®-käyttöjärjestelmässä.
 5. Käynnistä DJUCED-ohjelmisto. Ruudulle ilmestyy
   ikkuna,     joka     ilmoittaa    DJControl      Inpulse T7      -
   kontrollerin     tunnistamisen        onnistuneen       ja   sen
   olevan valmiina käytettäväksi.




                               49
 Kun    käynnistät    ohjelmiston    ensimmäistä       kertaa,
 DJUCED®         opastaa,       miten     kuulokkeet        ja
 aktiivikaiuttimet yhdistetään (tai antaa sinun käyttää
 tietokoneen     sisäänrakennettuja      kaiuttimia,    mikäli
 sinulla ei ole ulkoisia aktiivikaiuttimia). Seuraa ennen
 aloittamista ruudulla esitettäviä tietoja, jotka kertovat
 seuraavat askeleet.


Ääniasetukset:
DJUCED®: Jotta voit muokata äänikortin asetuksia,
napsauta       rataskuvaketta            ruudun        oikeasta
yläkulmasta. Asetusvalikko avautuu.
Valitse Audio (Ääni) -välilehti, niin voit valita äänikortin ja
määrittää lähdöt kuulokkeille ja kaiuttimille.


Windows®-järjestelmän perusasetukset ovat seuraavat:
  − Audio device (Äänilaite): DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
     (ASIO)
  − Output (Lähtö):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                              50
macOS®-järjestelmän perusasetukset ovat seuraavat:
  − Audio device (Äänet): DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Ääni ulos):
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Käy osoitteessa:
   https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Lataa ja asenna Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Käy osoitteessa:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (englanniksi).
 4. Lataa      ja   asenna         ajuripaketti       tietokoneen
   käyttöjärjestelmälle.
             o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
             o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®        vaatii   ajurien     asennuksen,        jotta
    DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria voi                käyttää
    ASIO-tilassa, mikä vähentää latenssia WASAPI-
    tilaan verrattuna ja on yleisesti ottaen vakaampi.
    Ajurit    antavat   sinun     myös      testata    DJControl
    Inpulse T7          -kontrolleria        ja        varmistaa
    laiteohjelmiston     version     sekä     Windows®-      että
    macOS®-käyttöjärjestelmässä.




                             52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 sisältää Serato DJ Lite
-lisenssin, ei Serato DJ Pro -lisenssiä.
Serato    DJ       Lite   -ohjelmistoa    voi   käyttää   ilman
aikarajaa.
Jos asennat Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmiston Serato DJ
Liten    sijaan,     Serato    DJ   Pro     toimii   DJControl
Inpulse T7 -kontrollerisi kanssa kokeilujakson ajan.
Jos haluat kokeilujakson päätyttyä jatkaa Serato DJ
Pro -ohjelmiston käyttöä, sinun täytyy ostaa Serato DJ
Pro -lisenssi.




                               53
  5.     Miksauksen elävöittäminen
Miksausta voi elävöittää eri tavoilla.



Soittotilat ja esityspainikkeet

Esityspainikkeet

DJUCED-ohjelmistossa esityspainikkeet 1–8 suorittavat
valittua tilaa vastaavat toiminnot.


Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa esityspainikkeet 1–4
suorittavat     valittua    tilaa     vastaavat      toiminnot.
Esityspainikkeet 5–8 suorittavat seuraavat toiminnot:
  − Esityspainike 5: Reverse (käänteinen toisto).
  − Esityspainike 6: Kelaa taaksepäin.
  − Esityspainike 7: Kelaa eteenpäin.
  − Esityspainike     8:   Censor     Tämä    toiminto    sallii
     kappaleen toiston taaksepäin, kun esityspainiketta
     pidetään       painettuna.        Kun        esityspainike
     vapautetaan, soitto jatkuu siitä pisteestä, missä
     kappale olisi ollut, jos sitä olisi toistettu normaalisti.
     Tällä voi peittää huonoa kielenkäyttöä kappaleesta.




                              54
Esityspainikkeille valitut soittotilat vaihtelevat käytetyn
ohjelmiston mukaan:


Soittotilat DJUCED        Serato DJ         Serato DJ
                              Lite             Pro**
    1        Hot Cue        Hot Cue           Hot Cue

    2        Loop Roll     Auto Loop         Auto Loop
    3         Stems          Stems             Stems
    4        Sampler        Sampler           Sampler
    5        TonePlay            –            Pitch Play
    6         PadFX              –            Loop Roll
    7          Slicer     Manual Loop       Manual Loop
               Loop
    8       BeatJump Scratch Banks          Scratch Banks
** Serato DJ Pro -lisenssi ei tule mukana




                            55
Hot Cue -tila

Hot Cue -piste on merkki (kuten kirjanmerkki), jonka voi
asettaa kappaleeseen, jolloin sen kohdan löytäminen
uudelleen on helppoa ja siihen voi palata jälkeenpäin
välittömästi.


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa       yhtä      kappaletta   kohti   voi
asettaa kahdeksan Hot Cue -pistettä.


Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa yhtä kappaletta kohti voi
asettaa neljä Hot Cue -pistettä.
Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa yhtä kappaletta kohti voi
asettaa kahdeksan Hot Cue -pistettä.


  1. Aktivoi Hot Cue -tila painamalla HOT CUE 1 -
    painiketta. HOT CUE 1 -painikkeen valo pysyy
    päällä.
  2. Aseta Hot Cue -piste painamalla esityspainiketta.
  3. Toista kappaletta Hot Cue -pisteestä painamalla sitä
    vastaavaa esityspainiketta.
  4. Poista Hot Cue -piste painamalla SHIFT-painiketta
    ja esityspainiketta yhtä aikaa.




                            56
Loop-tila




DJUCED-ohjelmistossa tämä soittotila vastaa Loop
Roll -tilaa. Dekin soittokohta jatkaa etenemistään
taustalla, kun otat luupin käyttöön. Kun poistut
luupista, soitto jatkuu siitä pisteestä, missä kappale
olisi ollut, jos se olisi jatkanut soimistaan.
Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa tämä
soittotila vastaa Auto Loop -tilaa.


Luuppi on kohta kappaleesta, jota soitetaan toistuvasti.


  1. Aktivoi Loop-tila painamalla LOOP 2 -painiketta.
     LOOP 2 -painikkeen valo pysyy päällä.


DJUCED:
  2. Käytä luuppia pitämällä esityspainike painettuna.
  3. Poistu luupista vapauttamalla esityspainike.


Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Käytä luuppia painamalla esityspainiketta.
  3. Poistu luupista painamalla samaa esityspainiketta.




                              57
Luupin pituus:

 Dekki 1 / dekki 2   DJUCED      Serato DJ Lite

  Esityspainike 1    1/16 tahti       1 tahti
  Esityspainike 2     ⅛ tahti        2 tahtia
  Esityspainike 3     ¼ tahti        4 tahtia
  Esityspainike 4    ½ tahtia        8 tahtia
  Esityspainike 5     1 tahti            -
  Esityspainike 6     2 tahtia           -
  Esityspainike 7     4 tahtia           -
  Esityspainike 8     8 tahtia           -




                      58
Stems-tila

Stems-tila sallii kappaleen erottelun neljään eri osaan
(laulu ja instrumentit), joita kutsutaan ”stem”-osiksi.


  1. Aktivoi Stems-tila painamalla STEMS 3 -painiketta.
     STEMS 3 -painikkeen valo pysyy päällä.
  2. Esityspainikkeet 1–4 on yhdistetty tiettyyn stemiin.
     Lopeta    stemin     toisto   painamalla      vastaavaa
     esityspainiketta. Esityspainikkeen valo sammuu.
  3. Jatka    stemin     toistoa   painamalla      vastaavaa
     esityspainiketta. Esityspainikkeen valo syttyy.


Stemit:

     Dekki 1 / dekki 2                    Stem

      Esityspainike 1                     Laulu
      Esityspainike 2                    Melodia
      Esityspainike 3                     Basso
      Esityspainike 4                   Rummut




                             59
Kun stemit otetaan ensimmäistä kertaa käyttöön
kappaleessa, erottelu ei tapahdu aina välittömästi. Voi
kestää hetki, kun DJ-ohjelmisto analysoi kappaletta ja
luo eri osioita (laulu, melodia, basso ja rummut).


Sinun kannattaa jättää tarpeeksi aikaa sille, kun
erottelet stemejä ja soitat niitä. Kun stemien eri osat
on luotu, stemien toisto on välitöntä.


Stems-tila vaatii tehokkaan tietokoneen.




                            60
Sampler-tila

Sample on lyhyt ääni, joka toistetaan soitettavan
kappaleen päälle: se voidaan toistaa joko kerran (jingle)
tai toistuvasti (luuppi).


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa           voi     esityspainikkeilla   1–8
soittaa    kahdeksaa        sample-näytettä,     jotka   löytyvät
monitasoisen samplerin kahdelta ensimmäiseltä riviltä.
Avaa      monitasoinen       sampleri    valitsemalla    2Decks
Horizontal + 2 Samplers pudotusvalikosta, joka löytyy
DJUCED-ohjelmiston vasemmasta yläkulmasta.


Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa samplen voi toistaa
esityspainikkeilla 1–4.
Avaa      Serato   DJ    Lite   -ohjelmiston     samplepaneeli
napsauttamalla      .


  1. Aktivoi Sampler-tila painamalla SAMPLER 4 -
     painiketta. SAMPLER 4 -painikkeen valo pysyy
     päällä.
  2. Toista sample painamalla esityspainiketta.
  3. Pysäytä samplen toisto painamalla yhtä aikaa
     SHIFT-painiketta ja vastaavaa esityspainiketta.




                                61
Soittotila 5




 Serato DJ Lite ei sisällä soittotilaa 5 (TonePlay).
 Serato DJ Pro, yhdessä Pitch 'n Time -liitännäisen
 kanssa, tarjoaa Pitch Play -tilan, joka toimii samalla
 periaatteella kuin TonePlay-tila.


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 5 vastaa TonePlay-
tilaa. Voit tässä soittotilassa toistaa Hot Cue -pisteitä eri
sävelkorkeuksilla.


  1. Aktivoi Hot Cue -tila ja valitse sitten Hot Cue -piste.
  2. Aktivoi soittotila 5 painamalla yhtä aikaa SHIFT ja
    HOT CUE 1. HOT CUE 1 -painike vilkkuu.
  3. Muokkaa      Hot     Cue     -pisteen   sävelkorkeutta
    painamalla yhtä esityspainikkeista 2–8.
  4. Palaa alkuperäiseen sävelkorkeuteen painamalla
    esityspainiketta 1.




                             62
Sävelkorkeuden muokkaus

   Dekki 1 / dekki 2              Sävelkorkeus

    Esityspainike 1            Alkuperäinen korkeus
    Esityspainike 2                    +1
    Esityspainike 3                    +2
    Esityspainike 4                    +3
    Esityspainike 5                     -1
    Esityspainike 6                     -2
    Esityspainike 7                     -3
    Esityspainike 8                     -4




                          63
Soittotila 6




 Serato DJ Lite ei sisällä soittotilaa 6.


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 6 vastaa PadFX-tilaa.
Tämän soittotilan avulla voi hallita esityspainikkeilla
käytettäviä efektilistan efektejä.
Efekti on toisinaan filtteri tai yhdistelmä filttereitä, joilla
muokataan kappaleen ääntä (kaiku, tilakaiku...).


Avaa efektilista napsauttamalla       .


  1. Aktivoi soittotila 6 painamalla yhtä aikaa SHIFT ja
     LOOP 2. LOOP 2 -painike vilkkuu.
  2. Suorita toiminto painamalla esityspainiketta.
  3. Poista efekti painamalla samaa esityspainiketta
     (esityspainikkeet 1–3).




                               64
Mahdolliset toiminnot:

Dekki 1 / dekki 2                 Efektit

 Esityspainike 1              Listan efekti 1
 Esityspainike 2              Listan efekti 2
 Esityspainike 3              Listan efekti 3
 Esityspainike 4         Efektilista esille/piiloon
 Esityspainike 5         Muuta listan efektiä 1
 Esityspainike 6         Muuta listan efektiä 2
 Esityspainike 7         Muuta listan efektiä 3
 Esityspainike 8                     -




                         65
Soittotila 7




DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 7 vastaa Slicer Loop
-tilaa. Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
soittotila 7 vastaa Manual Loop -tilaa.


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 7 vastaa Slicer Loop -
tilaa. Tämä soittotila sallii aktiivisen luupin pätkimisen
kahdeksaan osaan.


  1. Aktivoi soittotila 7 (Slicer Loop) painamalla yhtä
    aikaa SHIFT ja STEMS 3. STEMS 3 -painike
    vilkkuu.
  2. Toista    osio   luuppina   pitämällä   esityspainike
    painettuna.
  3. Lopeta osion toisto vapauttamalla esityspainike.




                            66
Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
soittotila 7 vastaa Manual Loop -tilaa. Tämä soittotila
sallii luupin manuaalisen käytön.


  1. Aktivoi soittotila 7 (Manual Loop) painamalla yhtä
    aikaa SHIFT ja STEMS 3. STEMS 3 -painike
    vilkkuu.
  2. Suorita toiminto painamalla esityspainiketta.


Mahdolliset toiminnot:

    Dekit 1/2                        Efektit

 Esityspainike 1         Ensimmäinen painallus: Aseta
                                  alkupiste (IN).
                          Toinen painallus: Muokkaa
                               alkupistettä (IN).
 Esityspainike 2         Ensimmäinen painallus: Aseta
                              päätepiste (OUT).
                          Toinen painallus: Muokkaa
                             päätepistettä (OUT).
 Esityspainike 3         Ota luuppi käyttöön, poista se
                                    käytöstä.

 Esityspainike 4   Siirrä dekin soittokohta luupin alkuun
                           ja toista luuppi (Reloop).

  AUTOLOOP-          Kasvata/lyhennä luupin pituutta.
  valintanuppi




                             67
Soittotila 8




DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 8 vastaa BeatJump-
tilaa. Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
soittotila 8 vastaa Scratch Banks -tilaa.


DJUCED-ohjelmistossa soittotila 8 vastaa BeatJump-
tilaa. Voit tässä soittotilassa tehdä tarkkoja hyppyjä
kappaleen sisällä.


  1. Aktivoi soittotila 8 (BeatJump) painamalla yhtä aikaa
    SHIFT ja SAMPLER 4. SAMPLER 4 -painike
    vilkkuu.
  2. Suorita hyppy painamalla esityspainiketta.


Hypyn pituus:

    Dekki 1 / dekki 2                   Hyppy

     Esityspainike 1            Siirry 1 tahti taaksepäin
     Esityspainike 2            Siirry 1 tahti eteenpäin
     Esityspainike 3          Siirry 2 tahtia taaksepäin
     Esityspainike 4            Siirry 2 tahtia eteenpäin
     Esityspainike 5          Siirry 4 tahtia taaksepäin
     Esityspainike 6            Siirry 4 tahtia eteenpäin
     Esityspainike 7          Siirry 8 tahtia taaksepäin
     Esityspainike 8            Siirry 8 tahtia eteenpäin
                           68
Serato DJ Lite- ja Serato DJ Pro -ohjelmistossa
soittotila 8 vastaa Scratch Banks -tilaa. Voit tässä
soittotilassa ladata välittömästi skrätsäyssamplen dekille
ja skrätsätä sitä motorisoidulla levylautasella sillä
hetkellä soivan kappaleen sijasta. Voit sen jälkeen
palata nopeasti sillä hetkellä soivaan kappaleeseen.
Avaa Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmiston skrätsäyssamplet
napsauttamalla    .


  1. Aktivoi soittotila 8 (Scratch Banks) painamalla yhtä
    aikaa SHIFT ja SAMPLER 4. SAMPLER 4 -painike
    vilkkuu.
  2. Toista skrätsäyssample painamalla esityspainiketta.
  3. Pysäytä skrätsäyssamplen toisto ja palaa aiemmin
    toistettuun kappaleeseen painamalla yhtä aikaa
    SHIFT-painiketta ja vastaavaa esityspainiketta.


Samplet:

    Dekki 1 / dekki 2                 Sample

     Esityspainike 1                    Ahh!
     Esityspainike 2                 Hey You!
     Esityspainike 3                   Oww!
     Esityspainike 4                   Yeah!




                           69
Skrätsäys
Skrätsätessä       kappaleelle       tuotetaan     ääniefekti
pyörittämällä motorisoitua levylautasta.


Aseta etusormi motorisoidun levylautasen päälle ja tee
pieniä ja nopeita liikkeitä oikealle ja vasemmalle.


Voit luoda rytmin toistamalla kyseisen skrätsin monta
kertaa.




 − Varmista ennen skrätsäämistä tai miksaamista, että
   huopainen levymatto on asetettu motorisoidun
   levylautasen ja vinyylilevyn väliin.
 − Älä    pakota    vinyyliä     motorisoidulle   lautaselle.
   Vinyylilevyn keskiö voi vahingoittua.




                               70
Filtterit
Kappaleen filtteriä säätämällä voi vaimentaa tiettyjä
taajuuksia.


  − Vaimenna korkeita taajuuksia (tunnetaan low-pass
    filtterinä tai korkealta leikkaavana filtterinä): käännä
    filtterinuppia (FILTER) vasemmalle.
  − Vaimenna matalia taajuuksia (tunnetaan high-pass
    filtterinä tai matalalta leikkaavana filtterinä): käännä
    filtterinuppia (FILTER) oikealle.




                            71
  6.     Monikanavainen äänikortti
DJControl       Inpulse     T7    -kontrolleri        sisältää
sisäänrakennetun     monikanavaisen    äänikortin,      jonka
avulla voit soittaa miksauksesi kaiuttimista yleisölle
(Master-lähtö kaiuttimille), monitoroida valmisteltavaa
kappaletta   kuulokkeista    (kuulokelähtö)      ja   käyttää
mikrofonia ja/tai linjatason lähdöllä varustettua laitetta
äänilähteenä.




                            72
Master-lähtö kaiuttimille (lähtö 1-2)
Aktiivikaiuttimet on yhdistettävä yhteen kahdesta DJ-
kontrollerin takana olevasta Master-kaiutinlähdöstä.




Molempia lähtöformaatteja voi käyttää yhtä aikaa –
yhdistämällä    esimerkiksi     toisen   lähtöparin    PA-
järjestelmään ja toisen lähtöparin monitorikaiuttimiin.




                           73
Kuulokelähtö (lähtö 3-4)
Kuulokkeet    on    yhdistettävä        yhteen   kahdesta   DJ-
kontrollerin edessä olevasta kuulokelähdöstä           .




Joka kerta kun DJ-kontrolleri yhdistetään, kuulokelähtö
määritetään oletusarvoisesti lähtöön 3-4, jotta se toimii
kaikkien markkinoilla olevien DJ-ohjelmistojen kanssa –
joihin kuuluvat erityisesti DJUCED® ja Serato DJ Lite.


Jos     kuitenkin        haluat        käyttää   DJ-kontrollerin
kuulokelähtöä tietokoneesi musiikin kuunteluun, esim.
iTunes-ohjelmistosta, sinun täytyy reitittää lähtö 1-2
kuulokelähtöön. Tee se painamalla MASTER VU -
mittarin alta löytyvää        -painiketta.




                                  74
Emme suosittele, että yhdistät kahta kuulokeparia yhtä
aikaa (esim. yksi 3,5 mm mini-jack-liittimeen ja toinen
6,35 mm jack-liittimeen). Jos molemmilla kuulokkeilla
ei     ole     sama       impedanssiarvo,       niiden
äänenvoimakkuudet poikkeavat toisistaan.




                          75
Mikrofonisyöte
Mikrofoni on yhdistettävä DJ-kontrollerin takana olevaan
mikrofonisyötteeseen. Mikrofonisyöte on balansoitu.




                          76
Voit   yhdistää      balansoidun      tai   balansoimattoman
mikrofonin. Balansoitu mikrofoni tuottaa selkeämmän
ja     voimakkaamman                äänen       vähäisemmillä
hengitysäänillä. Jos balansoitua mikrofonia ei ole
yhdistetty     balansoidulla        johdolla,   mikrofonijohto
heikentää mikrofonin äänenlaatua.


                        Balansoitu johto

              Tip (kärki)
             Ring (kehä)

        Sleeve (kaulus)




                     Balansoimaton johto


              Tip (kärki)


        Sleeve (kaulus)




                               77
  7.     Yhteensopivuus

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Tämä DJ-kontrolleri on Plug & Play -tuote, joka toimii
DJUCED-ohjelmistossa ilman ajureita millä tahansa
PC- tai Mac-tietokoneella, sillä se noudattaa USB Audio-
ja USB MIDI -standardeja.



ASIO ja Windows®-ohjauspaneeli
Sinun täytyy asentaa ASIO-ajurit, jotta voit käyttää
DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleria Serato DJ Lite -
ohjelmiston kanssa. ASIO-ajurit ovat saatavilla täältä:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Jos käytät DJUCED-ohjelmistoa, voit myös ladata
ASIO-ajurit hyödyntääksesi alhaisempaa latenssia PC-
tietokoneella.


ASIO-ajurit      sisältävät   tietokoneen   tehtäväpalkilta
avattavan        ohjauspaneelin.    Sen     löytää   myös
hakemistosta:       C:\Program     Files\DJHERCULESMIX\
Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\. Paneelilla voi säätää
erilaisia ASIO-asetuksia, mukaan lukien puskurin kokoa
ja latenssia.


                              78
ASIO-asetusten säätö:
  − Aseta ASIO-puskurin kooksi 4 tai 8 ms.
  − Käynnistä ohjelmisto (esim. DJUCED®) ja valitse
    DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) -ajuri.




Kun ohjelmisto aloittaa ASIO-ajurin käytön, ASIO-
asetuksia ei voi enää muuttaa ohjauspaneelista. Se on
täysin   normaalia   ja   ilmaisee   ASIO-ajurin   olevan
käytössä.




                           79
Käytä ohjelmistoa ja kuuntele tarkasti kuuluuko äänessä
mitään virheitä tai artefakteja (napsauksia ja poksauksia)
tai onko latenssin kanssa ongelmia. Mikäli virheitä tai
artefakteja ilmenee, sinun täytyy kasvattaa puskurin
kokoa, jotta ongelmat voidaan ratkaista.


Sulje ohjelmisto ja säädä ASIO-puskurin kokoa yksi arvo
kerrallaan:
  − Vähennä puskurin kokoa vähentääksesi latenssia.
  − Lisää puskurin kokoa, mikäli huomaat äänessä
     häiriöitä tai artefakteja.


Toista tämä toimenpide, kunnes löydät optimaalisen
puskurikoon järjestelmällesi.


Ajurit ovat saatavilla täältä:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                                 80
Laiteohjelmistopäivitys
DJ-kontrolleri sisältää automaattisen laiteohjelmiston
päivitystilan. Se vaatii Hercules-ajureiden asennuksen ja
ruudulle      ilmestyvien         ohjeiden   noudattamista.
Laiteohjelmisto päivitetään automaattisesti.


Ajurit ovat saatavilla täältä:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Ohjauspaneeli sallii myös pääsyn näihin tietoihin ja
näyttää tietokoneelle asennetun ajurin versiot ABOUT
(TIETOA) -välilehdellä. Pidä kyseiset tiedot käsillä, mikäli
sinun täytyy ottaa yhteyttä Herculeksen tekniseen
tukeen.




                                 81
DJ-kontrollerin testaus
ohjauspaneelissa
Voit DJControl Inpulse T7 -ohjauspaneelin ABOUT
(TIETOA) -osiossa testata motorisoitujen levylautasten
lisäksi   DJ-kontrollerin   ääntä,   MIDI-ohjaimia    ja
valaistusta.


Avaa      ohjauspaneeli      menemällä      seuraavaan
hakemistoon:                                C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Äänitesti

Testaa tuottaako DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin
äänikortti ääntä (ilman DJ-ohjelmistoa) napsauttamalla
kaiutinkuvaketta. Kuvake muuttuu testin ajaksi vihreäksi
ja ohjelma toistaa äänen kaiuttimien ja kuulokkeiden
Master-lähdöistä.




                            82
  2. MIDI-ohjaintesti

Jotta voit testata toimivatko DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin   MIDI-ohjaimet         (ilman   DJ-ohjelmistoa),
kokeile käyttää painikkeita tai muita ohjaimia, joita haluat
testata. Jos DIN-liittimen kuvake muuttuu vihreäksi, se
tarkoittaa, että MIDI-komento on vastaanotettu ja painike
tai muu ohjain toimii oikein.




                                83
  3. Valotesti

Jotta voit testata toimivatko DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin LED-valot oikein (ilman DJ-ohjelmistoa),
napsauta lamppukuvaketta sytyttääksesi kontrollerin
LED-valot. Kuvake muuttuu testin ajaksi vihreäksi ja
kontrollerin LED-valot syttyvät.




Voit myös sytyttää kaikki DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin LED-valot samanaikaisesti painamalla IN-
ja OUT-painikkeita molemmilta dekeiltä.




                            84
  4. Motorisoitujen levylautasten testaaminen

Jotta voit testata toimivatko DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin    motorisoidut       levylautaset   (ilman   DJ-
ohjelmistoa), napsauta lautasen 1 tai 2 kuvaketta.
Levylautasta vastaava kuvake ja DIN-liittimen kuvake
muuttuvat testin ajaksi vihreiksi. Motorisoitu levylautanen
liikkuu (eli pyörii) kontrollerilla.


Testi motorisoidulle levylautaselle 1:




Testi motorisoidulle levylautaselle 2:




                                85
  8.     Demotila
Tämä soittotila on saatavilla, kun yhdistät DJ-kontrollerin
virtalähteeseen     ja     USB-virtalähteeseen       ilman
tietokonetta. Sitä voi etenkin käyttää kaupassa. Tässä
tapauksessa DJ-kontrolleri ei ole täydessä käytössä
vaan demotilassa: kontrollerin eri valoja sytyttävä
demosekvenssi toistaa itseään.




                            86
  9.        UKK

 1.         Kuulokkeista ei kuulu ääntä.
Varmista, että kuulokkeet on yhdistetty DJ-kontrollerin
etuosaan,       sillä      DJ-kontrolleri      on    varustettu
monikanavaisella        äänikortilla,   joka   on   esiasetettu
toimimaan DJUCED®- ja Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmiston
kanssa.
Kaksi       monitorointipainiketta      on     oletusarvoisesti
käytössä, kun ohjelmisto käynnistetään ensimmäisen
kerran. Voit sen jälkeen valita kumpaa dekkiä haluat
kuunnella kuulokkeilla tai painaa MASTER VU -mittarin
alla olevaa             -painiketta kuullaksesi miksauksesi
tulokset.




                                87
  2.     Kuulokkeiden ääni on säröllä tai
    liian hiljainen.
Varmista,       että      kuulokkeet     käyttävät    TRS-liitintä
(normaalit kuulokkeet) eivätkä TRRS-liitintä (kuulokkeet
+ mikrofoni).


        Tip (kärki)                             Tip (kärki)
       Ring (kehä)                              Ring (kehä)
                                                Ring (kehä)
   Sleeve (kaulus)
                                                Sleeve (kaulus)




TRRS-liittimet         eivät   ole    yhteensopivia     DJControl
Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin kanssa.




                                 88
  3.     Kaiuttimista ei kuulu ääntä.
Varmista, että kaiuttimet on yhdistetty DJ-kontrollerin
takaosassa oleviin RCA- tai XLR-liittimiin, sillä DJ-
kontrolleri on varustettu monikanavaisella äänikortilla,
joka on esiasetettu toimimaan DJUCED®- ja Serato DJ
Lite -ohjelmiston kanssa.


Avaa DJ-kontrollerin ohjauspaneeli, jotta voit testata
(ilman DJ-ohjelmistoa) toistaako DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin äänikortti ääntä. Napsauta ABOUT (TIETOA)
-välilehteä ja sitten kaiutinkuvaketta. Kuvake muuttuu
vihreäksi, kun ääntä toistetaan.




                            89
 4.       Kannettavan                       tietokoneen
      kaiuttimista ei kuulu ääntä.
DJ-kontrolleri       on       varustettu        esisäädetyllä
monikanavaisella      äänikortilla.   Jos    haluat   käyttää
kannettavan tietokoneen sisäänrakennettuja kaiuttimia:
  − Avaa DJUCED®-ohjelmistossa asetukset ja rastita
      kohta      SEND     MASTER        TO      COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS          (LÄHETÄ        MASTER-SIGNAALI
      TIETOKONEEN KAIUTTIMIIN).




  − Avaa Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa asetukset, avaa
      Audio (Ääni) -välilehti ja rastita kohta Use Laptop
      Speakers       (Käytä    kannettavan       tietokoneen
      kaiuttimia).




                              90
 5.       Kuulokkeista            tai     kannettavan
      tietokoneen kaiuttimista ei kuulu
      ääntä.
Ääni kuuluu oletusarvoisesti kaiuttimille tarkoitetusta
Master-lähdöstä ja kuulokelähdöstä. Siksi on normaalia,
ettei kannettavan tietokoneen kaiuttimista kuulu ääntä.


Jos     haluat     käyttää    kannettavan      tietokoneen
sisäänrakennettuja kaiuttimia:
  − Avaa DJUCED®-ohjelmistossa asetukset ja rastita
      kohta      SEND    MASTER         TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS          (LÄHETÄ         MASTER-SIGNAALI
      TIETOKONEEN KAIUTTIMIIN). Kuulokkeet täytyy
      yhdistää DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleriin.




                             91
  − Avaa Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa asetukset, avaa
    Audio (Ääni) -välilehti ja rastita kohta Use Laptop
    Speakers      (Käytä         kannettavan   tietokoneen
    kaiuttimia). Kuulokkeet täytyy yhdistää DJControl
    Inpulse T7 -kontrolleriin.




Avaa DJ-kontrollerin ohjauspaneeli, jotta voit testata
(ilman DJ-ohjelmistoa) toistaako DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin äänikortti ääntä. Napsauta ABOUT (TIETOA)
-välilehteä ja sitten kaiutinkuvaketta. Kuvake muuttuu
vihreäksi, kun ääntä toistetaan.




                            92
  6.      Minulla on ongelmia äänenlaadun
    kanssa Windows®-käyttöjärjestelmällä.

Soitettavan kappaleen äänentaso on liian matala

DJ-ohjelmiston pää-äänentaso on erillinen DJ-kontrollerin
äänenvoimakkuuden kontrolleista. Eli niin kauan kuin DJ-
ohjelmiston pää-äänentaso on liian matala, Master-
ulostulon äänenvoimakkuus on myös liian matala.

Tarkista DJ-ohjelmiston äänenvoimakkuus ja nosta sitä
tarvittaessa.

  − Käytä DJUCED-ohjelmistossa ikkunan oikeassa
       yläkulmassa     olevassa        palkissa   olevaa
       äänenvoimakkuuden painiketta.




  − Käytä Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmistossa ikkunan
       oikeassa yläkulmassa olevassa palkissa olevaa
       äänenvoimakkuuden painiketta.




                            93
Kuulokkeiden         äänenvoimakkuus          on    liian
matala.

Avaa Serato DJ Liten asetukset avaamalla Audio (Ääni)
-välilehti ja poistamalla rasti (eli valinta) kohdasta Use
Laptop    Speakers   (Käytä     kannettavan   tietokoneen
kaiuttimia).




                           94
Jos sinun täytyy pitää Use Laptop Speakers (Käytä
kannettavan tietokoneen kaiuttimia) -laatikko rastitettuna
(eli   valittuna),    aseta   tietokoneen      sisäänrakennetun
äänikortin        asetukseksi        ”Computer        speakers”
(Tietokoneen kaiuttimet).
   1. Sulje Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmisto.
   2. Avaa Windows-käyttöjärjestelmän asetukset ja
       mene kohtaan System (Järjestelmä) ja sitten Sound
       (Ääni).
   3. Valitse kohdan Output (Toisto) alta tietokoneen
       sisäänrakennettu äänikortti. DJ-kontrolleri ei saa olla
       enää asetettu toistolaitteeksi.




Windows®         on    saattanut     asettaa     DJ-kontrollerisi
Windows®-äänikortiksi. Jos säilytät kyseisen asetuksen,
Use Laptop Speakers (Käytä kannettavan tietokoneen
kaiuttimia) -asetus voi toistaa Master-ulostulon DJ-
kontrollerin nelikanavaisesta ulostulosta (Master-ulostulo
+ kuulokkeet).




                                95
Ääni ei ole selkeä

DJUCED®:
Suosittelemme     ASIO-äänilaitteen    käyttöä.   WASAPI-
laitteen äänenlaatu on yleensä ottaen hyvä. Latenssi voi
kuitenkin kasvaa, jolloin ääni ei ole välttämättä selkeä.


Avaa asetukset napsauttamalla Audio (Ääni) -välilehteä
ja valitsemalla DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO)
kohdasta Audio device (Äänilaite).




Serato DJ Lite:
Avaa asetukset avaamalla Audio (Ääni) -välilehti ja
poistamalla rasti (eli valinta) kohdasta Use Laptop
Speakers (Käytä kannettavan tietokoneen kaiuttimia).




                            96
 6.      En               saa                  yhdistettyä
      multimediakaiuttimia                      DJControl
      Inpulse T7 -kontrolleriin.
Jos kaiuttimien liittimet eroavat DJControl Inpulse T7 -
kontrollerin liittimistä, voit käyttää 2x RCA – 3,5 mm
mini-jack-adapteria (ei tule mukana) ja yhdistää sen
multimediakaiuttimiin. Voit myös käyttää 2x XLR – 6,35
mm jack-liitinadapteria (ei tule mukana) ja yhdistää sen
PA-järjestelmään. Voit myös käyttää mitä tahansa muuta
adapteriformaattia, joka sopii kaiuttimiisi.
Voit myös yhdistää kaiuttimet kuulokelähtöön ja reitittää
lähdön 1-2 lähtöön 3-4 painamalla              -painiketta, joka
löytyy MASTER VU -mittarin alta.



  7.     Onko        DJControl          Inpulse T7            -
      kontrolleri yhteensopiva iPadin tai
      iPhonen kanssa?
Ei, DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrolleri ei ole yhteensopiva
iPadin tai iPhonen kanssa. Se toimii vain PC- tai Mac-
tietokoneiden kanssa.




                             97
  8.     Miten voin yhdistää DJControl
     Inpulse T7           -kontrollerin             USB-C-
     porttiin tai Thunderbolt 3 -porttiin?
Voit yhdistää DJControl Inpulse T7 -kontrollerin USB-C-
porttiin tai Thunderbolt 3 -porttiin kolmella eri tavalla:
  − Käyttämällä adapteria (USB-C [uros] / Thunderbolt 3
     – USB-A [naaras]) DJ-kontrollerin ja tietokoneen
     välillä. Ota huomioon, että jotkin halvat ratkaisut
     eivät   toimi kunnolla,       sillä   ne poistavat   osan
     virransyötöstä.
  − Käyttämällä telakkaa (USB-C tai Thunderbolt 3)
     tietokoneen ja DJ-kontrollerin välillä. Varmista, että
     telakalla on oma virtalähde, sillä pelkkää USB-C- tai
     Thunderbolt 3 -porttia käyttävän telakan virta ei
     välttämättä riitä.
  − Vaihtamalla mukana tulevan USB-kaapelin USB-C /
     Thunderbolt 3 – USB-B 2.0 -kaapeliin.




                              98
      TEKNINEN TUKI
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Tavaramerkit
Intel® ja Intel Core™ ovat Intel Corporationin tavaramerkkejä tai
rekisteröityjä tavaramerkkejä.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 on Microsoft Corporationin rekisteröity
tavaramerkki tai tavaramerkki Yhdysvalloissa ja/tai muissa maissa.
Mac® ja macOS® ovat Apple Inc. -yhtiön tavaramerkkejä, jotka on
rekisteröity Yhdysvalloissa ja muissa maissa.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite ja Serato DJ Pro ovat Serato Audio Research
Limitedin rekisteröityjä tavaramerkkejä.
DJUCED-tuotemerkki ja DJUCED-ohjelmiston graafiset elementit ovat
Guillemot Corporationin omaisuutta.
ASIO on Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH -yhtiön tavaramerkki.
Kaikkien   muiden     tässä   asiakirjassa   olevien    tavaramerkkien     ja
tuotenimien todetaan täten olevan haltijoidensa omaisuutta. Kuvitukset
eivät ole sitovia. Tämän asiakirjan sisältö, mallit ja tavaraselosteet voivat
muuttua ilman erillistä ilmoitusta ja vaihdella maasta toiseen.




                                    100
Tekijänoikeus
Mitään tämän käyttöohjeen osaa ei saa kopioida, tiivistää, lähettää,
kuvailla, tallentaa hakujärjestelmään tai kääntää muille kielille tai
ohjelmointikielille missään muodossa tai millään tavalla, tapahtui se sitten
sähköisesti, mekaanisesti, magneettisesti, manuaalisesti, valokopiolla,
äänittämällä tai muulla tavalla, ilman Guillemot Corporation S.A. -yhtiön
nimenomaisesti antamaa kirjallista suostumusta.




                                   101
DJUCED®                  ja       Serato    DJ       Lite      –
loppukäyttäjän lisenssisopimus
Lue DJUCED®- ja Serato DJ Lite -ohjelmiston asennuksen yhteydessä
esitetty lisenssisopimus huolellisesti.




                                     102
Návod na použitie
                                OBSAH


1.   OBSAH BALENIA ......................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ............................................. 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ............ 8

3.   VLASTNOSTI ............................................... 13

     Prehľad ................................................................... 13

     Decky....................................................................... 14

     Mixovanie ............................................................... 32

     Konektory............................................................... 43

4.   INŠTALÁCIA ................................................ 46

     Pripojenia ............................................................... 46

     Sťahovanie softvéru ............................................ 49

5.   OŽIVENIE VÁŠHO MIXU ............................. 54

     Režimy a pady ....................................................... 54

     Scratchovanie ....................................................... 70

     Filtre ......................................................................... 71
6.   VIACKANÁLOVÁ ZVUKOVÁ KARTA ........ 72

     Master výstup pre reproduktory (výstup 1-2) 73

     Výstup na slúchadlá (výstup 3-4) ..................... 74

     Vstup pre mikrofón .............................................. 76

7.   KOMPATIBILITA ......................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI......................................... 78

     ASIO a ovládací panel Windows® ..................... 78

     Aktualizácia firmvéru ........................................... 81

     Testovanie DJ mixpultu v ovládacom paneli. 82

8.   REŽIM DEMO............................................... 86

9.   ČASTO KLADENÉ OTÁZKY....................... 87
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 je plnohodnotný mixpult
navrhnutý tak, aby vám pomohol zvládnuť umenie
vinylových platní vďaka dvom motorizovaným mixážnym
tanierom, videonávodom a integrácii softvéru DJUCED
a Serato DJ Lite.




Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje licenciu pre
Serato DJ Lite, nie licenciu pre Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite je možné používať bez časového
obmedzenia.
Ak si namiesto Serato DJ Lite nainštalujete Serato DJ
Pro, Serato DJ Pro bude fungovať s vaším DJControl
Inpulse T7 počas skúšobnej doby. Na konci tohto
skúšobného     obdobia,   ak   chcete   pokračovať   v
používaní Serato DJ Pro, musíte si zakúpiť licenciu
Serato DJ Pro.



                           4
K dispozícii je široká škála video tutoriálov, ktoré vám
pomôžu naučiť sa mixovať s mixpultom Hercules
DJControl Inpulse T7:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (v Anglickom jazyku):
        o V DJUCED, kliknutím na ikonu       .
        o Na internetovej stránke DJUCED.
  − Hercules Audio YouTube kanál (v Anglickom
    jazyku).
  − The DJ Coach, s kurzom od DJ HAPA na Serato
    DJ Lite (v Anglickom jazyku).




                           5
 1.    Obsah balenia

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Dve vinylové platne (7 palcov / 17,8 cm)
 − Dva plstené slipmaty
 − Opletený USB kábel
 − Odnímateľný napájací kábel
 − Napájací adaptér
 − Návod na použitie
 − Informácie o záruke




                          6
Na mixpulte Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 môžete
odstrániť ochranné fólie zakrývajúce VU metre.
Ochranné fólie môžete ponechať aj na mieste, pretože
neovplyvňujú používanie VU metrov.




                         7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Dve vinylové platne (7 palcov / 17,8 cm)
 − Dva plstené slipmaty
 − Dva tenké plstené slipmaty
 − Opletený USB kábel
 − Odnímateľný napájací kábel
 − Napájací adaptér
 − Taška na prenášanie
 − Návod na použitie
 − Informácie o záruke




Na mixpulte Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium
Edition môžete odstrániť ochranné fólie zakrývajúce
VU metre. Ochranné fólie môžete ponechať aj na
mieste, pretože neovplyvňujú používanie VU metrov.




                          9
  2.     Technické špecifikácie
Systémové požiadavky:
  − DJUCED:
    https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
    (v Anglickom jazyku)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
    https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
    uirements#system-requirements
    (v Anglickom jazyku)


Audio výstupy:
             o Rozlíšenie = 24-bit
             o Vzorkovacia frekvencia = 44.1 kHz


Master výstup pre reproduktory (výstup 1-2) cez:
  − Dva RCA konektory:
             o Maximálny výstupný výkon = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Dva XLR konektory (vyvážené):
             o Maximálny výstupný výkon = 13 dBU
               @ 1 kΩ


Výstup pre slúchadlá (výstup 3-4) cez jeden 3,5 mm stereo
mini-jack konektor a jeden 6,35 mm stereo jack konektor:
             o Maximálny výstupný výkon = 5 dBU pre
               32Ω @ 1 kHz


Vstup pre mikrofón cez jeden 6,35 mm jack konektor
(vyvážený)
                             10
                        Zdroj
− Používajte   iba   napájací   zdroj   uvedený      v
  používateľskej príručke.
− Napájací zdroj používajte iba so sieťovým napätím
  a frekvenciou uvedenou na typovom štítku zdroja.




                         11
                   Informácie o napájaní
   Zverejnená                Hodnota        Jednotka
   informácia
  Názov alebo          GUILLEMOT
ochranná známka    CORPORATION S.A.
     výrobcu    414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes
 Obchodné číslo 2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc
     Adresa               56910 Carentoir
                            Francúzko
   Identifikátor          A481-1852590D
     modelu
 Vstupné napätie             100 - 240         V
       Vstupná                50 - 60         Hz
     frekvencia
striedavého prúdu
Výstupné napätie                 18.5        V DC
  Výstupný prúd                  2.6           A
 Výstupný výkon                  47.9          W
Priemerná aktívna                87.8          %
    účinnosť
Účinnosť pri nízkej              87.8          %
  záťaži (10%)
    Spotreba                     0.10          W
   naprázdno




                            12
 3.     Vlastnosti

Prehľad




 1. Motorizovaný tanier
 2. Tlačidlá presunu (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Ovládacie prvky slučky (Loop)
 4. Ovládacie prvky výberu skladby (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Regulátor tempa (Pitch fader)
 6. Pady a režimy
 7. Režimy prehrávania
 8. Monitorovanie, hlasitosti (Master, Slúchadlá a
      Mikrofón) a Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixovacia časť (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixovanie (Crossfader, regulátory hlasitosti)
 11. Efekty




                          13
Decky

  1. Motorizovaný tanier




Plstená podložka: umiestnená medzi motorizovaný
tanier a vinylovú platňu. Chráni vinylovú platňu pred
odieraním o tanier a znižuje vibrácie pri prehrávaní
platne.




 Pred     inštaláciou   vinylovej   platne   musíte   vždy
 umiestniť plstenú podložku na motorizovaný tanier.




                             14
Vinylová platňa: umožňuje scratchovať, zrýchliť alebo
spomaliť prehrávanie skladby a pohybovať sa v rámci
skladby.
Čiara na štítku vinylovej platne je referenčným bodom (t.
j. značka) na mixovanie a scratchovanie.


Vykonaná akcia závisí od dvoch kritérií:
  − či sa skladba prehráva alebo je pozastavená;
  − miesto, kde sa dotýkate vinylovej platne (vrchná
    časť (top) alebo obvod (ring)).


                          Hore




    Obvod




                           15
Akcie vinylových platní so Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ
Pro:


  Prehrávanie/        Motorizovaný
                                       Tlačidlo SHIFT
     Pauza               tanier
   Prehrávanie            Hore                   -
                      Scratchovanie
   Prehrávanie       Hore/Po obvode    Stlačte a podržte
               Rýchly pohyb v rámci skladby
   Prehrávanie          Po obvode                -
          Zrýchlite alebo spomaľte prehrávanie
       Pauza         Hore/Po obvode              -
               Pomalý pohyb v rámci skladby
       Pauza         Hore/Po obvode    Stlačte a podržte
               Rýchly pohyb v rámci skladby




                           16
Možnosti vinylových platní taniera s DJUCED:


   Prehrávanie/      Motorizovaný
                                      Tlačidlo SHIFT
      Pauza             tanier
   Prehrávanie           Hore                    -
                     Scratchovanie
   Prehrávanie      Hore/Po obvode    Stlačte a podržte
              Rýchly pohyb v rámci skladby
   Prehrávanie         Po obvode                 -
          Zrýchlite alebo spomaľte prehrávanie
      Pauza            Po obvode                 -
              Pomalý pohyb v rámci skladby




                          17
Motorizovaný tanier: poháňa vinylovú platňu, ktorá
riadi prehrávanie skladby a rýchlosť skladby podľa
tempa nastaveného pomocou regulátora tempa.


Keď je aktivovaná funkcia Beatmatch Guide, vizuálni
sprievodcovia BEAT ALIGN indikujú smer, v ktorom
musíte otočiť obvod platne (t. j. okraj) motorizovaného
taniera, aby ste zarovnali mriežky rytmu dvoch skladieb.
Keď dve červené šípky nesvietia, mriežky rytmu sú
zarovnané.


Viac informácií o funkcii Beatmatch Guide nájdete v časti
Beatmatch Guide.




 Nie je možné vypnúť motorizáciu tanierov.




 − Keď sa motorizovaný tanier otáča, nedržte ho rukou
   príliš dlho zastavený, aby ste nepoškodili systém
   pohonu.
 − Pri ukladaní vinylovej platne na motorizovaný tanier
   na ňu netlačte silou. Riskujete poškodenie stredu
   vinylovej platne.



                           18
  2. Tlačidlá presunu




SHIFT: kombinované ovládanie. Napríklad:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): uzamkne hudobnú
    tóninu skladby.
  − SHIFT + IN: v DJUCED® delí veľkosť aktívnej slučky
    dvomi.


SYNC: povolí alebo zakáže automatickú synchronizáciu
hodnôt BPM (úderov za minútu) dvoch skladieb.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o V    DJUCED:     urobí   z   decku     hlavný
        synchronizačný (Master Sync) deck.
      o V Serato DJ Lite: deaktivuje synchronizáciu na
        decku.




                         19
CUE:   vloží    bod     Cue      do    skladby        na    identifikáciu
konkrétneho      okamihu         alebo      presunie        ukazovateľ
prehrávania decku do polohy bodu Cue.
  − Skladba pozastavená: vloží bod Cue na miesto, kde je
    skladba zastavená.
  − Skladba sa prehráva: zastaví prehrávanie skladby a
    presunie ukazovateľ prehrávania do bodu Cue.
       o V DJUCED, ak nebol definovaný žiadny bod
         Cue, stlačením tlačidla CUE zastavíte prehrávanie
         a     umiestnite     bod     Cue        na    miesto     polohy
         ukazovateľa prehrávania.
       o Ak v Serato DJ Lite nebol definovaný žiadny bod
         CUE,       stlačením         tlačidla        CUE       zastavíte
         prehrávanie a umiestnite bod Cue na začiatok
         skladby.
  − CUE + PLAY: presunie ukazovateľ prehrávania do
    bodu Cue a prehrá skladbu od tohto bodu.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
       o V DJUCED: presunie ukazovateľ prehrávania na
         začiatok skladby a zastaví prehrávanie.
       o V     Serato       DJ    Lite:     presunie        ukazovateľ
         prehrávania        na    začiatok       skladby      a   spustí
         prehrávanie.


Prehrať/Pozastaviť: prehratie alebo pozastavenie skladby.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: v Serato DJ Lite presunie ukazovateľ
    prehrávania do bodu Cue a prehrá skladbu od tejto
    značky.
                                 20
  3. Ovládacie prvky slučky




Otočný ovládač AUTOLOOP:
  − Stlačením    ovládača:    sa    povolí    alebo    zakáže
    prehrávanie slučky.
  − Otočením ovládača: upravíte dĺžku slučky.


IN/OUT: umožňuje slučku výberom vstupného bodu (IN)
a výstupného bodu (OUT).
Keď je slučka aktívna (t. j. povolená):
  − Stlačte     IN    (tlačidlo     bliká)    a       otáčaním
    motorizovaného taniera posuňte začiatok slučky.
  − Stlačte     OUT     (tlačidlo    bliká)   a       otáčaním
    motorizovaného taniera posuňte koniec slučky.
Ak chcete slučku ukončiť, stlačte otočný ovládač
AUTOLOOP.
V DJUCED®:
  − SHIFT + IN: delí veľkosť aktívnej slučky dvomi.
  − SHIFT + OUT: násobí veľkosť aktívnej slučky
    dvomi.
  − Dlhé stlačenie IN: umožňuje slučku štyroch úderov.



                             21
  4. Ovládacie prvky výberu skladby




Otočný       ovládač   BROWSER*:      umožňuje     vám
prechádzať hudobnou knižnicou a zoznamom skladieb
otáčaním ovládača doľava (hore) alebo doprava (dole).
Stlačením ovládača vyberiete priečinky a nahráte
vybranú skladbu do cieľového decku.


Podsvietený krúžok:
V DJUCED, zobrazuje úroveň energie hlavnej skladby
pre tempo.
V Serato DJ Lite, zobrazuje rytmus. Svetlo bliká v rytme
skladby:
    o Červená: označuje prvý úder.
    o Modrá: označuje tri nasledujúce doby.




                          22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − V DJUCED zobrazí panel s návrhom najlepších
    pripravovaných skladieb pre váš mix.
    Ak chcete prechádzať zoznamom navrhovaných
    skladieb, otočte otočným ovládačom BROWSER.
    Ak    chcete    vybrať   skladbu,   stlačte    ovládač
    BROWSER.
    Skladba, ktorá je už načítaná na tomto decku, musí
    byť pozastavená.
    Stlačte     ASSIST./PREP.   a   otočením      otočného
    ovládača upravte úroveň energie navrhovaných
    skladieb.
  − V Serato DJ Lite pridá aktuálne prehrávanú skladbu
    do zoznamu Prepare (Pripraviť).
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: otvorí panel Prepare
    (Príprava).


BACK*: umožňuje vám pohybovať sa v stromovej
štruktúre v DJUCED a Serato DJ Lite.
  − V DJUCED sa stlačením SHIFT a BACK vrátite do
    stĺpca Knižnica.




* Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.
                            23
  5. Regulátor tempa




Regulátor   tempa:    nastavuje   rýchlosť   prehrávania
skladby úpravou počtu BPM.
  − Posunutím hore: spomalíte skladbu.
  − Posunutím nadol: zrýchlite skladbu.
  − Regulátor   tempa   v    strede:   pôvodná   rýchlosť
    skladby. Svieti biela LED dióda.


Keď je aktivovaná funkcia Beatmatch Guide, vizuálni
pomocníci TEMPO indikujú, či potrebujete posunúť
regulátor tempa nahor alebo nadol, aby ste spomalili
alebo zrýchlili skladbu. Keď sú dve červené šípky
vypnuté, tempo na tomto decku je identické s tempom
na druhom decku.


Viac informácií o funkcii Beatmatch Guide nájdete v
sekcii Beatmatch Guide.



                            24
V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro, keď je aktivovaný
režim SYNC, stlačením SHIFT a súčasným pohybom
regulátorom tempa môžete posúvať hodnoty regulátora
tempa pri zachovaní amplitúdy.


Napríklad   so   stupnicou    tempa   ±8%   alebo   16%
amplitúdou môžete posunúť hodnoty regulátora tempa
tak, aby pokryli od 0% (maximum) do -16% (minimum),
čo má stále za následok 16% amplitúdu, s - 8% v strede.




                             25
RANGE*: umožňuje zmeniť rozsah tempa regulátorov
tempa.
  − V DJUCED: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %, ± 16 %,
    ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − V Serato DJ Lite: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): uzamkne hudobnú tóninu
skladby.
Aby ste sa uistili, že je hudobná tónina uzamknutá,
stlačte SHIFT. Tlačidlo RANGE sa rozsvieti.




* Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.
                           26
  6. Pady a režimy




Tlačidlá režimov: umožňujú povoliť až osem režimov.
Ak chcete aktivovať hlavný režim, stlačte HOT CUE 1,
LOOP 2, STEMS 3 alebo SAMPLER 4.
Ak chcete povoliť sekundárny režim (MODE 5, MODE 6,
MODE 7 a MODE 8), súčasne stlačte SHIFT a HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 alebo SAMPLER 4. Tlačidlo
režimu bliká.
Režimy povolené na padoch sa líšia v závislosti od
používaného softvéru.


Viac informácií o rôznych režimoch s DJUCED, Serato
DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro, nájdete v sekcii Režimy a
pady.


Efektové pady: pad vykonáva akciu.




                         27
  7. Režimy prehrávania




INSTRUMENTAL: umožňuje vám hrať len časti skladby
Melódiu, Basy a Bicie. Toto je skratka pre režim Stems.
  − Ak chcete prehrať len časti skladby Melódia, Basy a
    Bicie, stlačte tlačidlo INSTRUMENTAL. Tlačidlo sa
    rozsvieti.
  − Ak chcete obnoviť prehrávanie všetkých častí
    skladby (Vokály, Melódia, Basy a Bicie), znova
    stlačte tlačidlo INSTRUMENTAL. Svetlo tlačidla
    zhasne.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: zapína režim Slip. V režime
Slip sa ukazovateľ prehrávania naďalej posúva na
pozadí, keď použijete efekt alebo slučku, umiestnite bod
Cue alebo keď použijete motorizované platne. Keď
prestanete aplikovať efekt, prehrávanie sa obnoví od
bodu, kde by sa skladba nachádzala, ak by pokračovala
v prehrávaní.
Ak sa chcete uistiť, že je povolený režim Slip, stlačte
SHIFT. Tlačidlo INSTRUMENTAL svieti.




Serato DJ Lite neobsahuje režim Slip.
Serato DJ Pro obsahuje režim Slip.




                          29
VOCAL: umožňuje vám prehrať len časť Vokálov
skladby. Toto je skratka pre režim Stems.
  − Ak chcete prehrať len Vokálovú časť skladby,
    stlačte tlačidlo VOCAL. Tlačidlo sa rozsvieti.
  − Ak chcete obnoviť prehrávanie všetkých častí
    skladby (Vokály, Melódia, Basy a Bicie), znova
    stlačte tlačidlo VOCAL. Svetlo tlačidla zhasne.


SHIFT + VOCAL: aktivuje režim Quantize. Kvantizácia
vám umožňuje použiť akciu na ďalší úder v mriežke
(prehrať skladbu, umiestniť bod Cue, spustiť slučku...).
Aby ste sa uistili, že je zapnutý režim Quantize, stlačte
SHIFT. Tlačidlo VOCAL svieti.




Serato DJ Lite neobsahuje režim Quantize.
Serato DJ Pro obsahuje režim Quantize.




                           30
     (pitch bend -) /      (pitch bend +): umožňuje vám
manuálne     zarovnať     rytmickú    mriežku   skladby
prehrávanej na tomto decku s rytmickou mriežkou
druhého decku.
  − Stlačením a podržaním            na chvíľu spomalíte
    deck.
  − Stlačením a podržaním            na chvíľu zrýchlite
    deck.




 V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro, SHIFT +           a
 SHIFT +         umožňujú upraviť nastavenia v určitých
 režimoch (Nastavenia).




                           31
Mixovanie

  8. Monitorovanie, hlasitosť a Beatmatch Guide




Hlasitosť MIC: upravuje hlasitosť mikrofónu.


Svetelný krúžok MIC: indikuje úroveň audio signálu
(VU meter).
  − Nesvieti: nie je počuť žiadny zvukový signál.
  − Zelená: prehráva sa zvukový signál.
  − Červená: zvukový signál je saturovaný.


Hlasitosť MASTER: upravuje hlasitosť mixu, ktorý sa
prehráva na vašich reproduktoroch.


MASTER VU meter: zobrazuje úroveň audio signálu
hlavného výstupu (RCA alebo XLR) pre reproduktory.


                          32
Hlasitosť HEADPHONES:
 −       /       : upraví signál prehrávaný na slúchadlách
     zmiešaním výstupu Cue (monitorovanie deckov 1 a
     2) a výstupu Mix (Master výstup).
       o Ak chcete počúvať iba monitorovanie, stlačte
         tlačidlá Monitorovania pre decky 1 a 2. Tlačidlá
         sa rozsvietia. Potom nastavte otočný gombík
         na Cue.
       o Ak chcete počúvať iba výstup Master, stlačte
         tlačidlo Master Monitorovania. Tlačidlo sa
         rozsvieti. Potom nastavte gombík na Mix, aby
         ste upravili mix prehrávaný na slúchadlách.
 −           : upravuje hlasitosť výstupu slúchadiel.




                              33
Monitorovanie:       slúži   na   výber    zdroja   zvuku
prehrávaného na slúchadlách.
  −          (umiestnený pod MASTER VU metrom):
      prehráva zvuk mixu, ktorý sa hrá nahlas pre
      publikum
  −       * (umiestnený na oboch stranách tlačidla
      BEATMATCH GUIDE): prehráva zvuk decku 1
      alebo decku 2, keď je tlačidlo Cue/Mix nastavené na
      Cue.
V Serato DJ Lite stlačte SHIFT a          * (vedľa tlačidla
BEATMATCH GUIDE), aby ste upravili mriežku rytmu
stopy prehrávanej na tomto decku. Ak chcete ukončiť
režim úpravy mriežky rytmov, kliknite na Edit Grid
(Upraviť mriežku).




* Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.
                            34
BEATMATCH GUIDE: zapína alebo vypína svetelných
sprievodcov na úpravu tempa a zarovnanie mriežok
rytmu dvoch skladieb. Na každý balíček sú štyri červené
šípky.




DJUCED® definuje jeden z deckov ako hlavný
synchronizačný (Master Sync) deck a druhý ako
podriadený deck. Červené šípky sa rozsvietia iba na
podriadenom decku, pretože tento deck sleduje tempo
hlavného synchronizačného decku.
Serato DJ Lite nedefinuje hlavný synchronizačný deck.
Na oboch deckoch svietia červené šípky.




                          35
− Vizuálni sprievodcovia TEMPO: ak sa rozsvieti
 jedna z dvoch červených šípok umiestnených
 napravo od regulátora tempa, znamená to, že
 tempo (t. j. počet úderov za minútu) skladby
 prehrávanej na tomto decku je iné ako tempo
 druhého decku.
  Šípky označujú smer, ktorým musíte posunúť
  regulátor tempa, aby ste upravili tempo prehrávanej
  skladby tak, aby zodpovedalo tempu na druhom
  decku.
        o Horná     šípka    svieti:   posuňte   regulátor
           tempa nahor. Tým sa tempo spomalí.
        o Dolná     šípka    svieti:   posuňte   regulátor
           tempa nadol. Tým sa tempo zrýchli.
        o Šípky nesvietia: tempo decku je identické s
           tempom      hlavného        synchronizačného
           decku.




                            36
− Vizuálni sprievodcovia BEAT ALIGN: ak sa rozsvieti
  jedna z dvoch červených šípok umiestnených pod
  motorizovaným tanierom znamená to, že údery
  skladby, ktorá sa hrá na tomto decku, nie sú
  zarovnané s údermi druhého decku.
  Šípky    označujú    smer,        ktorým     musíte    otočiť
  motorizovaný     tanier,    aby    ste     zarovnali   údery
  prehrávanej skladby s údermi druhého decku.
      o Šípka doľava svieti: otočte motorizovaný
          tanier v smere hodinových ručičiek. Tým sa
          zvýši rýchlosť prehrávania.
      o Šípka doprava svieti: otočte motorizovaný
          tanier proti smeru hodinových ručičiek. Tým
          sa spomalí rýchlosť prehrávania.
      o Šípky nesvietia: údery decku sú zarovnané s
          údermi druhého decku.




                             37
  9. Mixovacia sekcia




Otočný gombík GAIN*: upravuje zosilnenie (t.j. úroveň
hlasitosti pred použitím ovládača hlasitosti).


3-pásmový ekvalizér (EQ)*: ovláda intenzitu EQ. Ku
každému pásmu je priradený otočný gombík: HIGH, MID
a LOW.


Otočný gombík FILTER*: upravuje frekvenciu duálneho
filtra (high-pass a low-pass).




* Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.

                            38
  10.   Mixér




VU meter: zobrazuje úroveň audio signálu deckov 1 a 2.


Regulátor hlasitosti*: upravuje hlasitosť decku.


Crossfader: umožňuje vám urobiť prechod medzi
dvoma skladbami zvýšením hlasitosti jedného z deckov
a znížením hlasitosti druhého decku.
  − Crossfader úplne vľavo: skladbu počujete iba na
    decku 1.
  − Crossfader úplne doprava: skladbu počujete iba na
    decku 2.
  − Crossfader v strede: počujete skladby na oboch
    deckoch 1 a 2 súčasne.


                          39
Prepínač krivky: umožňuje upraviť krivku crossfadera.
  −       (mix): progresívne miešanie dvoch deckov.
  −       (scratch): veľmi rýchle zmiešanie dvoch deckov.
  −       (zakázané): crossfader je vypnutý, mixovanie
      len pomocou regulátorov hlasitosti.




V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro môžete upraviť
nastavenia crossfaderu. Prejdite na Nastavenia a
potom na Mixer:
   − Power (Výkonne): rýchla krivka pre scratchovanie.
   − Linear     (Lineárne):    progresívna   krivka   pre
      mixovanie.
   − Reverse (Reverzne): obráti smer crossfadera, tiež
      známy ako režim „Hamster“.




* Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.

                              40
  11.    Efekty




Ak chcete zobraziť efektový panel, kliknite na:
  − V DJUCED: kliknite na                 .
  − V Serato DJ Lite: kliknite na              .


Efektové tlačidlá             /     /     *: umožňujú vám vybrať
efekt z efektového panelu. Tlačidlo sa rozsvieti.
Ak chcete povoliť efekt, použite páčku výkonu.
Ak chcete upraviť efekty spojené s tlačidlami                  /    /   ,
vyberte nový efekt v paneli efektov. V Serato DJ Lite a
Serato DJ Pro môžete tiež stlačiť SHIFT a                  /       alebo
  , aby ste zobrazili zoznam efektov, a potom znova
stlačiť SHIFT a       /           alebo    , aby ste sa posunuli v
zozname a vybrali nový efekt.




 V Serato DJ Lite:
 − Je možné kombinovať viacero efektov súčasne.
 − Tri efekty     /       /       na ľavej strane sa vzťahujú na
   ľavý deck (Deck 1) a tri efekty                 /   /   na pravej
                           41
   strane sa vzťahujú na pravý deck (Deck 2).
 V Serato DJ Pro sa dve skupiny troch tlačidiel efektov
 vzťahujú na dva virtuálne decky.


Páčka výkonu*: umožňuje vám povoliť efekt načítaný
na tlačidlách       ,    alebo   . Existujú tri rôzne polohy:
  − HOLD: nepretržite aktivuje efekt, keď je páčka v
    tejto polohe.
  − ON: na chvíľu aktivuje efekt, keď je páčka v tejto
    polohe.
  − Centrálna poloha: efekt vypnutý.


Otočný gombík DEPTH: nastavuje intenzitu efektu.


Tlačidlá        /       : upravuje sa trvanie cyklu efektu
synchronizovaného s hudbou.




DJUCED túto funkcionalitu neobsahuje.




*Funkcionalita je rovnaká na deckoch 1 a 2.

                                 42
Konektory




  12.    Master výstup pre reproduktory (výstup 1-2)
  13.    Vyvážený mikrofónový vstup
  14.    USB-B 2.0 port
  15.    Tlačidlo POWER
  16.    Konektor pre napájací adaptér
  17.    Výstup pre slúchadlá (výstup 3-4)


Hlavný   výstup    pre    reproduktory    (výstup     1-2):
umožňuje pripojiť aktívne reproduktory.
Formáty: 2 x nevyvážené RCA (Cinch) a 2 x vyvážené
XLR.


Vyvážený    mikrofónový     vstup:    umožňuje      pripojiť
vyvážený alebo nevyvážený mikrofón.
Formát: 6,35 mm jack.




                           43
USB-B 2.0 port: umožňuje pripojiť mixpult k počítaču.


Tlačidlo POWER: umožňuje zapnúť a vypnúť mixpult
DJControl Inpulse T7.


Konektor pre napájací adaptér: umožňuje pripojiť
napájací kábel a zapojiť mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 do
elektrickej zásuvky pomocou adaptéra.


Výstup na slúchadlá (výstup 3-4): umožňuje pripojiť
slúchadlá na monitorovanie skladieb.
Formáty: 3,5 mm stereo mini-jack konektor a 6,35 mm
stereo jack konektor.




                          44
Roztiahnite štyri zasúvateľné nožičky, aby ste zdvihli
mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 a veďte káble pod ním.




− Pred prepravou        mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7
  stiahnite nožičky.
− Keď    mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 nepoužívate,
  zatiahnite nožičky.
− Keď sú nožičky vysunuté, netlačte na        mixpult
  DJControl Inpulse T7 silou väčšou ako 5 kg / 50
  newtonov.




                           45
 4.     Inštalácia

Pripojenia
 1. Pripojte napájací adaptér k mixpultu DJControl
   Inpulse T7.
 2. Pripojte napájací kábel k napájaciemu adaptéru a
   zapojte ho do elektrickej zásuvky.
 3. Pripojte USB kábel k mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7
   a k počítaču.
 4. Stlačte tlačidlo POWER na mixpulte DJControl
   Inpulse T7. Tlačidlo je stlačené dnu.
 5. Skontrolujte, či sú reproduktory vypnuté, alebo ak
   sú pripojené k externému zosilňovaču, či je
   zosilňovač      vypnutý.    Pripojte   vstupy   aktívnych
   reproduktorov k výstupom Master pre reproduktory
   mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7 (2 x RCA alebo 2 x
   XLR).
 6. Nastavte hlasitosť MASTER na minimálnu úroveň
   na mixpulte DJControl Inpulse T7 a potom zapnite
   reproduktory.
 7. Nasaďte si slúchadlá okolo krku (a nie na uši),
   potom ich pripojte k 3,5 mm mini-jack konektoru
   alebo 6,35 mm jack konektoru.
 8. Pripojte mikrofón k vstupu pre mikrofón (voliteľné).




                              46
                        Zdroj
− Používajte   iba   napájací     zdroj   uvedený    v
  používateľskej príručke.
− Napájací zdroj používajte iba so sieťovým napätím
  a frekvenciou uvedenou na typovom štítku zdroja.



                             47
− Súčasne je možné použiť oba výstupné formáty
  (XLR a RCA) — napríklad pripojením výstupného
  páru k PA systému a druhého výstupného páru k
  monitorovacím reproduktorom.
− Pri každom pripojení mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7
  k počítaču sa spustí sekvencia osvetlenia LED,
  nazývaná Vegas Mode. Vegas Mode prebieha v
  štyroch fázach, čo umožňuje rozsvietiť všetky LED
  diódy a zobraziť rôzne možné farby na padoch a na
  podsvietených   prstencoch   otočných   ovládačov
  BROWSER.




                        48
Sťahovanie softvéru

DJUCED

 1. Navštívte: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
 2. Stiahnite a nainštalujte DJUCED®.
 3. Navštívte:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (v Anglickom jazyku).
 4. Stiahnite    a       nainštalujte    balík   ovládačov             pre
   operačný systém vášho počítača.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®         vyžaduje,          aby   ste   nainštalovali
    ovládače, aby ste mohli používať DJControl Inpulse
    T7 v režime ASIO, ktorý znižuje latenciu v
    porovnaní        s     režimom        WASAPI        a        je     vo
    všeobecnosti stabilnejší.
    Ovládače vám tiež umožňujú otestovať mixpult
    DJControl Inpulse T7 a overiť verziu firmvéru v
    systéme Windows® aj macOS®.
 5. Spustite     softvér     DJUCED.         Zobrazí       sa        okno
   indikujúce, že váš mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 bol
   úspešne rozpoznaný a je pripravený na použitie.




                                49
 Keď prvýkrát spustíte softvér, DJUCED® vás prevedie
 pripojením vašich slúchadiel a aktívnych reproduktorov
 (alebo vám umožní používať reproduktory zabudované
 vo vašom počítači, ak nemáte externé aktívne
 reproduktory). Skôr než začnete, postupujte podľa
 informácií na obrazovke krok za krokom.


Nastavenia zvuku:
V DJUCED® pre upravenie nastavenia zvukovej karty,
kliknite na ikonu ozubeného kolieska       v pravej hornej
časti obrazovky. Zobrazí sa ponuka Nastavenia.
Vyberte kartu Audio (Audio), aby ste vybrali zvukovú
kartu a priradili výstupy pre slúchadlá a reproduktory.


Štandardné nastavenie pre Windows® je nasledovné:
  − Audio device (Audio zariadenie): DJControl Inpulse
    T7 ASIO (ASIO)
  − Output (Výstup):
           o Master: Outputs 1&2
           o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                            50
Štandardné nastavenie pre macOS® je nasledovné:
Audio device (Audio device): DJControl Inpulse T7
Output (Výstup):
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                          51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Navštívte: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Stiahnite si a nainštalujte Serato DJ Lite.
 3. Navštívte:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (v Anglickom jazyku).
 4. Stiahnite si a nainštalujte balík ovládačov pre
   operačný systém vášho počítača.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    Windows®      vyžaduje,     aby    ste    nainštalovali
    ovládače, aby ste mohli používať DJControl Inpulse
    T7 v režime ASIO, ktorý znižuje latenciu v
    porovnaní     s   režimom      WASAPI         a   je   vo
    všeobecnosti stabilnejší.
    Ovládače vám tiež umožňujú otestovať mixpult
    DJControl Inpulse T7 a overiť verziu firmvéru v
    systéme Windows® aj macOS®.




                           52
Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje licenciu pre
Serato DJ Lite, nie licenciu pre Serato DJ Pro.
Serato DJ Lite je možné používať bez časového
obmedzenia.
Ak si namiesto Serato DJ Lite nainštalujete Serato DJ
Pro, Serato DJ Pro bude fungovať s vaším DJControl
Inpulse T7 počas skúšobnej doby. Na konci tohto
skúšobného    obdobia,    ak   chcete   pokračovať     v
používaní Serato DJ Pro, musíte si zakúpiť licenciu.




                          53
    5.   Oživenie vášho mixu
Existujú rôzne spôsoby, ako oživiť svoj mix.



Režimy a pady

Pady

V    DJUCED     pady   1      až    8   vykonávajú   činnosti
zodpovedajúce aktuálne povolenému režimu.


V Serato DJ Lite, pady 1 až 4 vykonávajú akcie
zodpovedajúce aktuálne povolenému režimu. Pady 5 až
8 vykonávajú tieto činnosti:
Pad 5: Reverse (prehrávanie dozadu)
Pad 6: previnutie
Pad 7: rýchly posun dopredu
Pad 8: Censor. Táto akcia vám umožňuje prehrávať
stopu v opačnom smere, kým je pad podržaný. Po
uvoľnení padu sa prehrávanie obnoví od bodu, kde by
sa skladba nachádzala, ak by pokračovala v normálnom
prehrávaní.   Toto    možno         použiť   na   maskovanie
explicitného jazyka v skladbe.




                               54
Režimy povolené na padoch sa líšia v závislosti od
používaného softvéru:


Režimy DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

   1       Hot Cue        Hot Cue             Hot Cue

   2      Loop Roll      Auto Loop           Auto Loop
   3        Stems          Stems              Stems
   4      Sampler         Sampler            Sampler
   5      TonePlay           –               Pitch Play
   6       PadFX             –               Loop Roll
   7     Slicer Loop    Manual Loop         Manual Loop
   8      BeatJump      Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro licencia nie je zahrnutá.




                            55
Hot Cue režim

Hot Cue je značka (ako záložka), ktorú môžete umiestniť
do skladby, aby ste tento moment v skladbe znova
jednoducho našli a potom sa k nemu okamžite vrátili.


V DJUCED, je možné nastaviť osem Hot Cue bodov na
skladbu.


V Serato DJ Lite je možné nastaviť štyri Hot Cue body
na skladbu.
V Serato DJ Pro je možné nastaviť osem Hot Cue bodov
na skladbu.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu Hot Cue stlačte HOT CUE 1.
    Svetlo tlačidla HOT CUE 1 zostane svietiť.
  2. Ak chcete nastaviť bod Hot Cue, stlačte príslušný
    pad.
  3. Ak chcete prehrať skladbu z bodu Hot Cue, stlačte
    príslušný pad.
  4. Ak chcete odstrániť bod Hot Cue, stlačte súčasne
    SHIFT a pad.




                          56
Režim Loop




V DJUCED tento režim zodpovedá režimu Loop Roll.
Keď použijete slučku, ukazovateľ prehrávania sa
naďalej posúva na pozadí. Keď vypnete slučku,
prehrávanie sa obnoví od bodu, kde by sa skladba
nachádzala, ak by pokračovala v prehrávaní.
V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro tento režim
zodpovedá režimu Auto Loop.


Slučka je časť skladby, ktorá sa opakovane prehráva.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu Loop stlačte LOOP 2. Svetlo
    tlačidla LOOP 2 zostane svietiť.


V DJUCED:
  2. Ak chcete použiť slučku, stlačte a podržte pad.
  3. Ak chcete vypnúť slučku, uvoľnite príslušný pad.


V Serato DJ Lite:
  2. Ak chcete použiť slučku, stlačte pad.
  3. Ak chcete vypnúť slučku, stlačte príslušný pad.




                           57
Dĺžka slučky:

  Deck 1 / Deck 2   DJUCED      Serato DJ Lite

       Pad 1        1/16 úderu       1 úder
       Pad 2         ⅛ úderu        2 údery
       Pad 3         ¼ úderu        4 údery
       Pad 4         ½ úderu       8 úderov
       Pad 5          1 úder           -
       Pad 6         2 údery           -
       Pad 7         4 údery           -
       Pad 8        8 úderov           -




                     58
Režim Stems

Režim Stems vám umožňuje rozdeliť skladbu do štyroch
rôznych častí (vokály a hudobné nástroje), ktoré sa
nazývajú “stems”.


  1. Ak chcete vstúpiť do režimu Stems, stlačte STEMS
    3. Svetlo tlačidla STEMS 3 zostane svietiť.
  2. Pady 1 až 4 sú prepojené cez stem. Ak chcete
    zastaviť prehrávanie stem, stlačte príslušný pad.
    Svetlo padu zhasne.
  3. Ak   chcete    obnoviť   stem   prehrávanie,   stlačte
    príslušný pad. Podložka sa rozsvieti.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                     Stem

           Pad 1                        Vokály
           Pad 2                        Melódia
           Pad 3                         Basy
           Pad 4                         Bicie




                              59
Keď po prvýkrát povolíte stems v skladbe, oddelenie
nie je vždy okamžité. Môže to chvíľu trvať, kým DJ
softvér analyzuje skladbu a vygeneruje rôzne časti
(vokály, melódia, basa, bicie).


Nezabudnite nechať dostatok času medzi okamihom,
keď oddeľujete stems a okamihom, keď ich hráte. Po
vygenerovaní rôznych častí pre stems je prehrávanie
stems okamžité.


Na použitie režimu Stems je potrebný výkonný
počítač.




                            60
Režim Sampler

Ukážka       je   krátky   zvuk    prehrávaný   cez   aktuálne
prehrávanú skladbu: možno ho prehrať buď raz (jingle)
alebo opakovane (slučka).


V DJUCED vám pady 1 až 8 umožňujú prehrať osem
ukážok, ktoré sa nachádzajú na prvých dvoch riadkoch
viacvrstvového samplera.
Ak chcete zobraziť viacvrstvový sampler, vyberte v
rozbaľovacej ponuke v ľavej hornej časti obrazovky v
DJUCED 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers.


V Serato DJ Lite vám pady 1 až 4 umožňujú prehrať
vzorku.
Ak chcete zobraziť panel vzoriek, kliknite       v Serato DJ
Lite.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu Sampler stlačte SAMPLER 4.
        Svetlo tlačidla SAMPLER 4 zostane svietiť.
  2. Ak chcete prehrať vzorku stlačte pad.
  3. Ak chcete zastaviť prehrávanie vzorky, stlačte
        súčasne SHIFT a príslušný pad.




                                  61
Režim 5




Serato DJ Lite nemá režim 5 (TonePlay).
Serato DJ Pro v spojení s doplnkom Pitch 'n Time
ponúka režim Pitch Play, ktorý funguje na rovnakom
princípe ako režim TonePlay.


V DJUCED režim 5 zodpovedá režimu TonePlay. Tento
režim vám umožňuje prehrať bod Hot Cue v rôznych
tónoch.


  1. Aktivujte režim Hot Cue a potom vyberte bod Hot
    Cue.
  2. Pre vstup do režimu 5 stlačte súčasne SHIFT a
    HOT CUE 1. Tlačidlo HOT CUE 1 bliká.
  3. Ak chcete upraviť tón bodu Hot Cue, stlačte jeden z
    padov 2 až 8.
  4. Ak sa chcete vrátiť k pôvodnému tónu, stlačte
    pad 1.




                          62
Úprava tónu:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2            Tón

          Pad 1             Originálny tón
          Pad 2                  +1
          Pad 3                  +2
          Pad 4                  +3
          Pad 5                  -1
          Pad 6                  -2
          Pad 7                  -3
          Pad 8                  -4




                       63
Režim 6




 Serato DJ Lite nemá režim 6.


V DJUCED režim 6 zodpovedá režimu PadFX. Tento
režim vám umožňuje ovládať efekty v efektovom paneli
pomocou padov.
Efekt   je    niekedy   filter    alebo   kombinácia   filtrov
aplikovaných na skladbu na úpravu jej zvuku (echo,
reverb...).


Ak chcete zobraziť efektový panel, kliknite na     .


  1. Pre vstup do režimu 6 stlačte súčasne SHIFT a
     LOOP 2. Tlačidlo LOOP 2 bliká.
  2. Ak chcete vykonať akciu, stlačte pad.
  3. Ak chcete efekt deaktivovať, stlačte príslušný pad
     (pad 1 až 3).




                                 64
Možné akcie:

 Deck 1 / Deck              Efekty

    Pad 1              Efekt 1 z panelu
    Pad 2              Efekt 2 z panelu
    Pad 3              Efekt 3 z panelu
    Pad 4        Zobrazí/skryje efektový panel
    Pad 5           Zmení efekt 1 z panelu
    Pad 6           Zmení efekt 2 z panelu
    Pad 7           Zmení efekt 3 z panelu
    Pad 8                      -




                     65
Režim 7




V DJUCED režim 7 zodpovedá režimu Slicer Loop. V
Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro režim 7 zodpovedá
režimu Manual Loop.


V DJUCED režim 7 zodpovedá režimu Slicer Loop.
Tento režim vám umožňuje rozdeliť aktívnu slučku na
osem sekcií.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu 7 (Slicer Loop), stlačte
    súčasne SHIFT a STEMS 3. Tlačidlo STEMS 3
    bliká.
  2. Ak chcete prehrať časť ako slučku, stlačte a podržte
    pad.
  3. Ak chcete zastaviť prehrávanie časti, uvoľnite
    príslušný pad.




                           66
V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro režim 7 zodpovedá
režimu Manual Loop. Tento režim vám umožňuje
manuálne povoliť slučku.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu 7 (Manual Loop) súčasne
    stlačte SHIFT a STEMS 3. Tlačidlo STEMS 3 bliká.
  2. Ak chcete vykonať akciu, stlačte pad.


Možné akcie:

  Deck 1/2                       Efekty

    Pad 1      Prvé stlačenie: nastaví vstupný bod (IN)
               Druhé stlačenie: upraví vstupný bod (IN)
    Pad 2        Prvé stlačenie: nastaví koncový bod
                                  (OUT)
                 Druhé stlačenie: upraví výstupný bod
                                  (OUT)
    Pad 3                  Zapína/vypína slučku
    Pad 4        Presunie ukazovateľ prehrávania na
               začiatok slučky a prehrá slučku (Reloop)

   Otočný           Zvyšuje/skracuje dĺžku slučky
   gombík
 AUTOLOOP




                            67
Režim 8




V DJUCED režim 8 zodpovedá režimu BeatJump. V
Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro režim 8 zodpovedá
režimu Scratch Banks.


V DJUCED režim 8 zodpovedá režimu BeatJump.
Tento režim vám umožňuje urobiť presný skok v
skladbe.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu 8 (BeatJump), stlačte
    súčasne     SHIFT     a        SAMPLER      4.   Tlačidlo
    SAMPLER 4 bliká.
  2. Ak chcete urobiť skok, stlačte pad.


Dĺžka skoku:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2                        Skok

           Pad 1                   Vráťte sa o 1 úder späť
           Pad 2               Choďte dopredu o 1 úder
           Pad 3               Vráťte sa o 2 údery späť
           Pad 4               Choďte dopredu o 2 údery
           Pad 5               Vráťte sa o 4 údery späť
           Pad 6               Choďte dopredu o 4 údery
           Pad 7               Vráťte sa o 8 úderov späť
           Pad 8              Choďte dopredu o 8 úderov
                              68
V Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro režim 8 zodpovedá
režimu Scratch Banks. Tento režim vám umožňuje
okamžite načítať scratch vzorku na deck, aby ste ho
zoscratchovali    na   motorizovanom    tanieri   namiesto
aktuálne prehrávanej skladby, a potom sa rýchlo vrátiť k
aktuálne prehrávanej skladbe.
Ak chcete zobraziť panel scratch vzoriek, kliknite       v
Serato DJ Lite.


  1. Pre prístup do režimu 8 (Scratch Banks), stlačte
    súčasne SHIFT a SAMPLER 4. Tlačidlo SAMPLER
    4 bliká.
  2. Ak chcete prehrať scratch vzorku, stlačte pad.
  3. Ak chcete zastaviť prehrávanie scratch vzorky a
    vrátiť sa k predtým prehrávanej skladbe, stlačte
    súčasne SHIFT a príslušný pad.


Vzorky:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Vzorka

          Pad 1                          Ahh!
          Pad 2                        Hey You!
          Pad 3                         Oww!
          Pad 4                         Yeah!




                           69
Scratchovanie
Scratchovanie pozostáva z vytvárania zvukového efektu
zo skladby otáčaním motorizovaného taniera.


Položte ukazovák na motorizovaný tanier a robte malé,
rýchle pohyby doprava a doľava.


Toto scratchovanie môžete opakovať niekoľkokrát, aby
ste vytvorili rytmus.




 − Pred scratchovaním alebo mixovaním sa uistite, že
   ste medzi motorizovaný tanier a vinylovú platňu
   vložili plstenú podložku.
 − Pri ukladaní vinylovej platne na motorizovaný tanier
   na ňu netlačte silou. Riskujete poškodenie stredu
   vinylovej platne.




                           70
Filtre
Úprava filtra skladby vám umožňuje stlmiť určité
frekvencie.


  − Zoslabte vysoké frekvencie (známe ako low-pass
    filter alebo high-cut filter): otočte gombíkom filtra
    (FILTER) doľava.
  − Zoslabte nízke frekvencie (známe ako high-pass
    filter alebo low-cut filter): otočte gombíkom filtra
    (FILTER) doprava.




                          71
  6.    Viackanálová zvuková karta
Muxpult DJControl Inpulse T7 obsahuje vstavanú
viackanálovú zvukovú kartu, ktorá vám umožňuje
prehrávať váš mix na reproduktoroch pre publikum
(hlavný výstup pre reproduktory), sledovať ďalšiu
skladbu, ktorú pripravujete na slúchadlách (výstup pre
slúchadlá) a ako zdroj zvuku použiť mikrofón a/alebo
zariadenie vybavené linkovým výstupom.




                         72
Master       výstup        pre        reproduktory
(výstup 1-2)
Vaše aktívne reproduktory by mali byť pripojené
k výstupu Master pre reproduktory umiestnenému na
zadnej strane vášho mixpultu.




Je možné súčasne využívať oba výstupné formáty —
napríklad pripojením výstupného páru k PA systému a
druhého     výstupného     páru   k    monitorovacím
reproduktorom.



                          73
Výstup na slúchadlá (výstup 3-4)
Vaše slúchadlá musia byť pripojené k jednému z dvoch
výstupov pre slúchadlá      na prednej strane vášho DJ
mixpultu.




V predvolenom nastavení je vždy, keď je pripojený váš
DJ mixpult, výstup slúchadiel priradený k výstupu 3-4,
takže môže fungovať so všetkým DJing softvérom
dostupným na trhu – vrátane DJUCED® a najmä Serato
DJ Lite.


Ak však chcete použiť výstup slúchadiel vášho DJ
mixpultu na počúvanie hudby na počítači napríklad
pomocou iTunes, musíte výstup 1-2 nasmerovať na
výstup slúchadiel. Ak to chcete urobiť, stlačte tlačidlo
     umiestnené pod meradlom MASTER VU.


                          74
Neodporúčame pripájať dva páry slúchadiel súčasne
(t. j. jedny do 3,5 mm mini-jack výstupného konektora
a druhé do 6,35 mm jack výstupného konektora). Ak
oba páry slúchadiel nemajú rovnakú impedanciu, budú
mať rozdielnu výstupnú hlasitosť.




                          75
Vstup pre mikrofón
Váš mikrofón musí byť pripojený k mikrofónovému
vstupu umiestnenému na zadnej strane vášho DJ
mixpultu. Vstup mikrofónu je vyvážený.




                          76
Môžete pripojiť vyvážený alebo nevyvážený mikrofón.
Vyvážený mikrofón vytvára čistejší a silnejší zvuk s
menšími     dychovými     efektmi.   Ak   váš   vyvážený
mikrofón nie je pripojený pomocou symetrického
kábla, kábel mikrofónu zníži kvalitu zvuku mikrofónu.


                      Symetrický kábel

             Tip (Vrch)
          Ring (Obvod)

       Sleeve (Spojka)




                    Nesymetrický kábel


             Tip (Vrch)


       Sleeve (Spojka)




                            77
  7.        Kompatibilita

USB Audio / USB MIDI
Tento DJ mixpult je Plug & Play a môže pracovať bez
ovládačov s DJUCED na akomkoľvek PC alebo Mac,
pretože vyhovuje štandardom USB Audio a USB MIDI.



ASIO a ovládací panel Windows®
Ak chcete použiť mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 so Serato
DJ Lite, musíte nainštalovať ovládače ASIO. ASIO
ovládače sú dostupné tu:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Ak používate DJUCED, môžete si tiež stiahnuť
ovládače ASIO, aby ste na svojom PC využili nižšiu
latenciu.


Ovládače ASIO sa dodávajú s ovládacím panelom, ktorý
je dostupný na paneli úloh počítača alebo v adresári
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\. Tento panel vám umožňuje upraviť rôzne
nastavenia ASIO vrátane veľkostí vyrovnávacej pamäte
a latencie.




                           78
Ak chcete upraviť nastavenia ASIO:
  − Veľkosť vyrovnávacej pamäte ASIO nastavte na 4
    alebo 8 ms.
  − Spustite svoj softvér (napr.: DJUCED®) a vyberte
    ovládač DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO):




Keď softvér začne používať ovládač ASIO, nastavenia
ASIO už nie je možné meniť v ovládacom paneli. Je to
úplne normálne a znamená to, že sa ovládač ASIO
používa.




                         79
Použite svoj softvér a pozorne počúvajte, či sa vo zvuku
nevyskytujú možné chyby alebo artefakty (kliknutia,
puknutia) alebo akékoľvek problémy s latenciou. Ak sa
vyskytnú chyby alebo artefakty, budete musieť zväčšiť
veľkosť vyrovnávacej pamäte, aby ste problém vyriešili.


Zatvorte softvér a upravte vyrovnávaciu pamäť ASIO o
jednu hodnotu:
  − Znížte veľkosť vyrovnávacej pamäte, aby ste znížili
    latenciu.
  − Ak si všimnete chyby alebo artefakty vo zvuku,
    zväčšite veľkosť vyrovnávacej pamäte.


Tento postup budete musieť opakovať, kým nenájdete
optimálnu veľkosť vyrovnávacej pamäte pre váš systém.


Ovládače sú dostupné tu:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                           80
Aktualizácia firmvéru
Váš DJ mixpult má režim automatickej aktualizácie
firmvéru. Vyžaduje si to inštaláciu ovládačov Hercules a
dodržiavanie   pokynov     na   obrazovke.    Aktualizácia
firmvéru prebehne automaticky.


Ovládače sú dostupné tu:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


Ovládací panel vám tiež umožňuje prístup k týmto
informáciám     a    zobrazenie      verzií    ovládačov
nainštalovaných vo vašom počítači na karte ABOUT (O
PRODUKTE). Majte tieto informácie pripravené, ak
potrebujete kontaktovať technickú podporu Hercules.




                           81
Testovanie DJ mixpultu v ovládacom
paneli
V sekcii ABOUT (O PRODUKTE) ovládacieho panela
DJControl Inpulse T7 môžete otestovať zvuk, MIDI
ovládacie prvky a osvetlenie vášho DJ mixpultu spolu s
motorizovanými taniermi.


Ak chcete získať prístup k ovládaciemu panelu, prejdite
do   nasledujúceho     adresára:    C:\Program    Files\
DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



  1. Zvukový test

Ak chcete otestovať, či zvukové rozhranie mixpultu
DJControl Inpulse T7 produkuje zvuk (bez použitia DJ
softvéru na tento účel), kliknite na ikonu reproduktora.
Ikona sa počas testu zmení na zelenú a program prehrá
zvuk na Master výstupoch pre reproduktory a slúchadlá.




                           82
  2. Test ovládacích prvkov MIDI

Ak chcete otestovať, či ovládacie prvky MIDI mixpultu
DJControl Inpulse T7 fungujú (bez použitia DJ softvéru
na tento účel), skúste použiť tlačidlá alebo iné ovládacie
prvky, ktoré chcete vyskúšať. Ak sa ikona konektora DIN
zmení na zelenú, znamená to, že sa prijíma príkaz MIDI
a tlačidlo alebo iný ovládací prvok funguje správne.




                           83
  3. Skúška osvetlenia

Ak chcete otestovať, či LED diódy mixpultu DJControl
Inpulse T7 fungujú (bez použitia DJ softvéru na tento
účel), kliknite na ikonu žiarovky, aby sa rozsvietili LED
diódy ovládača. Ikona sa počas testu zmení na zelenú a
rozsvietia sa LED diódy mixpultu.




Môžete tiež rozsvietiť všetky LED kontrolky DJControl
Inpulse T7 súčasným stlačením tlačidiel IN a OUT na
oboch deckoch.




                           84
  4. Test motorizovaných tanierov

Ak chcete otestovať, či motorizované taniere mixpultu
DJControl Inpulse T7 fungujú (bez použitia DJ softvéru
na tento účel), kliknite na ikonu taniera 1 alebo 2. Ikony
zodpovedajúceho taniera a konektor DIN sa počas testu
rozsvietia na zeleno a motorizovaný tanier sa pohybuje
(t.j. otáča) na mixpulte.


Test motorizovaného taniera číslo 1:




Test motorizovaného taniera číslo 2:




                            85
  8.    Režim Demo
Tento režim je dostupný, keď pripojíte váš DJ mixpult k
napájaciemu zdroju a USB napájaciemu zdroju bez
počítača a používa sa najmä v predajni. V tomto prípade
DJ ovládač nefunguje, ale je v demo režime: demo
sekvencia   rozsvecujúca   rôzne   svetlá   mixpultu   sa
neustále opakuje.




                           86
  9.       Často kladené otázky

  1.       Z mojich slúchadiel nevychádza
       žiadny zvuk.
Uistite sa, že ste slúchadlá pripojili k prednej časti DJ
mixpultu,   pretože   váš   DJ   mixpult   je   vybavený
viackanálovou zvukovou kartou predkonfigurovanou na
prácu s DJUCED® a Serato DJ Lite.
Štandardne sú dve monitorovacie tlačidlá povolené pri
prvom spustení softvéru. Potom si môžete vybrať buď
deck, ktorý chcete počúvať na slúchadlách, alebo stlačte
tlačidlo      umiestnené pod MASTER VU metrom a
vypočujte si výsledky vášho mixu.




                            87
  2.      Zvuk v mojich slúchadlách je
    skreslený alebo príliš nízky.
Uistite sa, že vaše slúchadlá majú konektor TRS
(štandardné slúchadlá) a nie konektor TRRS (slúchadlá
+ mikrofón).


          Tip (Vrch)                  Tip (Vrch)
       Ring (Obvod)                   Ring (Obvod)
                                      Ring (Obvod)
   Sleeve (Spojka)
                                      Sleeve (Spojka)




TRRS konektory nie sú kompatibilné s mixpultom
DJControl Inpulse T7.




                         88
  3.    Z         mojich            reproduktorov
    nevychádza žiadny zvuk.
Uistite sa, že ste svoje reproduktory pripojili ku
konektorom RCA alebo XLR na zadnej strane DJ
mixpultu,   pretože   váš   DJ   mixpult   je   vybavený
viackanálovou zvukovou kartou vopred nakonfigurovanou
na prácu s DJUCED® a Serato DJ Lite.


Ak chcete otestovať (bez použitia DJ softvéru), či audio
rozhranie ovládača DJControl Inpulse T7 produkuje
zvuk, môžete zobraziť ovládací panel DJ mixpultu.
Kliknite na kartu ABOUT (O PRODUKTE) a potom
kliknite na ikonu reproduktora. Pri prehrávaní zvuku sa
ikona zmení na zelenú.




                            89
 4.       Z             reproduktorov               môjho
      prenosného počítača nevychádza
      žiadny zvuk.
Váš    DJ     mixpult    je   vybavený   predkonfigurovanou
viackanálovou zvukovou kartou. Ak chcete použiť
reproduktory zabudované do prenosného počítača:
  − V DJUCED® prejdite do nastavení a začiarknite
      možnosť      SEND       MASTER      TO     COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS          (POSLAŤ     HLAVNÝ       SIGNÁL   DO
      POČÍTAČOVÝCH REPRODUKTOROV).




  − V Serato DJ Lite otvorte nastavenia, otvorte kartu
      Audio (Audio) a začiarknite možnosť Use Laptop
      Speakers     (Použite       reproduktory    prenosného
      počítača).




                               90
 5.       Z      mojich        slúchadiel         alebo
      reproduktorov prenosného počítača
      nevychádza žiadny zvuk.
V predvolenom nastavení vychádza zvuk z Master
výstupu pre reproduktory a výstupu slúchadiel. Je preto
normálne, že z vášho prenosného počítača nevychádza
žiadny zvuk.


Ak    chcete    použiť   reproduktory    zabudované   do
prenosného počítača:
  − V DJUCED® vstúpte do nastavení a označte
      možnosť    SEND      MASTER       TO    COMPUTER
      SPEAKERS       (POSLAŤ      HLAVNÝ      ZVUK    DO
      REPRODUKTOROV POČÍTAČA). Slúchadlá musíte
      pripojiť k mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7.




                             91
  − V Serato DJ Lite otvorte nastavenia, otvorte kartu
    Audio (Audio) a začiarknite možnosť Use Laptop
    Speakers     (Použite    reproduktory   prenosného
    počítača). Slúchadlá musíte pripojiť k mixpultu
    DJControl Inpulse T7.




Ak chcete otestovať (bez použitia DJ softvéru), či audio
rozhranie mixpultu DJControl Inpulse T7 produkuje zvuk,
môžete zobraziť ovládací panel DJ mixpultu. Kliknite na
kartu ABOUT (O PRODUKTE) a potom kliknite na ikonu
reproduktora. Pri prehrávaní zvuku sa ikona zmení na
zelenú.




                            92
  6.          Mám        problémy           s     kvalitou
     zvuku v systéme Windows®.

Hlasitosť prehrávanej skladby je príliš nízka
Hlavná hlasitosť DJ softvéru je nezávislá od ovládačov
hlasitosti na DJ mixpulte. Preto, pokiaľ je hlavná
hlasitosť DJ softvéru nízka, hlasitosť výstupu Master
bude tiež nízka.


Skontrolujte hlasitosť DJ softvéru a v prípade potreby ju
zvýšte.

  − V DJUCED použite tlačidlo hlasitosti umiestnené
    na lište v pravej hornej časti okna.




  − V     Serato   DJ   Lite,    použite   tlačidlo   hlasitosti
    umiestnené na lište v pravej hornej časti okna.




                                93
Hlasitosť na mojich slúchadlách je príliš nízka

V Serato DJ Lite, otvorte nastavenia, otvorte kartu Audio
a zrušte začiarknutie (t. j. zrušte výber) Use Laptop
Speakers     (Použite   Reproduktory    na   Prenosnom
Počítači).




                           94
Ak potrebujete ponechať začiarknuté políčko Use Laptop
Speakers      (Použite        Reproduktory   na     Prenosnom
Počítači), nastavte vstavanú zvukovú kartu počítača ako
„Reproduktory počítača“:
1. Zatvorte softvér Serato DJ Lite.
2. Vstúpte do nastavení Windows a prejdite na Systém
(Systém) a potom Sound (Zvuk).
3. V časti Output (Výstup) vyberte vstavanú zvukovú
kartu počítača. Váš DJ mixpult už nesmie byť nastavený
ako výstup.




Windows® mohol nastaviť váš DJ mixpult ako zvukovú
kartu   Windows®.        Ak     ponecháte    toto   nastavenie,
nastavenie Use Laptop Speakers (Použite Reproduktory
na Prenosnom Počítači) môže prehrávať Master výstup
na 4-kanálovom výstupe vášho DJ mixpultu (Master
výstup + slúchadlá).




                                 95
Zvuk nie je čistý

V DJUCED®:
Odporúčame vám použiť zvukové zariadenie ASIO. So
zariadením WASAPI je kvalita zvuku vo všeobecnosti
dobrá. Môže sa však zvýšiť latencia a zvuk nemusí byť
čistý.


Vojdite do nastavení, kliknite na záložku Audio a vyberte
DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO) ako Audio device
(Audio zariadenie).




V Serato DJ Lite:
Vstúpte do nastavení, otvorte kartu Audio a zrušte
začiarknutie (t. j. zrušte začiarknutie) Use Laptop
Speakers     (Použite   Reproduktory    na   Prenosnom
Počítači).




                           96
  7.        Nemôžem              pripojiť         svoje
     multimediálne               reproduktory            k
     môjmu DJControl Inpulse T7.
Ak     sa   konektory   vašich   reproduktorov   líšia   od
konektorov na mixpulte DJControl Inpulse T7, môžete na
pripojenie multimediálnych reproduktorov použiť duálny
adaptér RCA na 3,5 mm mini-jack (nie je súčasťou
balenia), duálny adaptér XLR na 6,35 mm jack (nie je
súčasťou balenia) na pripojenie PA reproduktorov alebo
akéhokoľvek iný formát adaptéra zodpovedajúceho
vašim reproduktorom.
Môžete tiež pripojiť vaše reproduktory k výstupu
slúchadiel a smerovať výstup 1-2 do výstupu 3-4
stlačením tlačidla       umiestneného pod MASTER VU
metrom.



  8.        Je mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7
     kompatibilný           s      iPadom         alebo
     iPhone?
Nie, ovládač DJControl Inpulse T7 nie je kompatibilný s
iPadom alebo iPhonom. Funguje iba s PC alebo Mac.




                            97
  9.    Ako        môžem          pripojiť    mixpult
    DJControl Inpulse T7 k portu USB-C
    alebo k portu Thunderbolt 3?
Mixpult DJControl Inpulse T7 môžete pripojiť k portu
USB-C alebo k portu Thunderbolt 3 tromi rôznymi
spôsobmi:
  − Pomocou       adaptéra    (USB-C   [zástrčka]   alebo
    Thunderbolt    3   na    USB   A   [zásuvka])   medzi
    počítačom a DJ mixpultom. Upozorňujeme, že
    niektoré lacné adaptéry nebudú fungovať správne,
    pretože prerušia časť napájania.
  − Pomocou doku (USB-C alebo Thunderbolt 3) medzi
    počítačom a DJ mixpultom. Uistite sa, že dokovacia
    stanica má vyhradený zdroj napájania, pretože
    dokovacia stanica napájaná iba cez port USB-C
    alebo Thunderbolt 3 nemusí mať dostatok energie.
  − Výmenou dodaného kábla USB za kábel USB-C
    alebo Thunderbolt 3 na USB B 2.0.




                             98
  TECHNICKÁ PODPORA
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Ochranné známky
Intel® a Intel Core™ sú ochranné známky alebo registrované ochranné
známky spoločnosti Intel Corporation.
Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 je registrovaná ochranná známka alebo
ochranná známka spoločnosti Microsoft Corporation v USA a/alebo v
iných krajinách.
Mac® a macOS® sú ochranné známky spoločnosti Apple Inc.,
registrované v USA a ďalších krajinách.
Serato, Serato DJ Lite a Serato DJ Pro sú registrované ochranné
známky spoločnosti Serato Audio Research Limited.
Značka DJUCED® a grafické prvky DJUCED® sú majetkom spoločnosti
Guillemot Corporation.
ASIO je ochranná známka spoločnosti Steinberg Media Technologies
GmbH.
Všetky ostatné ochranné známky a obchodné názvy sú týmto uznané v
tomto dokumente a sú majetkom ich príslušných vlastníkov. Ilustrácie
nie sú záväzné. Obsah, dizajn a špecifikácie v tomto dokumente sa
môžu zmeniť bez upozornenia a môžu sa v jednotlivých krajinách líšiť.




                                 100
Autorské práva
Žiadna časť tejto príručky sa nesmie reprodukovať, sumarizovať,
prenášať, prepisovať, uchovávať vo vyhľadávacom systéme alebo
prekladať do akéhokoľvek jazyka alebo počítačového jazyka, a to v
žiadnej   forme    alebo   akýmikoľvek   prostriedkami,   elektronicky,
mechanicky,   magneticky,    manuálne,    prostredníctvom    fotokópií,
záznamov, alebo inak, bez výslovného písomného súhlasu Guillemot
Corporation S.A.




                                 101
Licenčná                zmluva               koncového
používateľa DJUCED® a Serato DJ
Lite
Pozorne si prečítajte licenčnú zmluvu zobrazenú počas inštalácie
DJUCED® a Serato DJ Lite.




                              102
Használati útmutató
             TARTALOMJEGYZÉK


1.   DOBOZ TARTALMA ..................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 ....................................... 6

     DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition ........ 8

2.   TECHNIKAI SPECIFIKÁCIÓK..................... 10

3.   JELLEMZŐK ................................................ 13

     Áttekintés.........................................................13

     Deckek..............................................................14

     Mixelés .............................................................32

     Csatlakozók .....................................................43

4.   TELEPÍTÉS .................................................. 46

     Csatlakozás .....................................................46

     A szoftver letöltése ........................................49

5.   DOBJA FEL A MIXÉT ................................. 54

     Módok és padek .............................................54

     Szkreccselés ...................................................70

     Szűrők ..............................................................71
6.   TÖBBCSATORNÁS HANGKÁRTYA .......... 72

     Master kimenet hangszórókhoz (1-2

     kimenet) ...........................................................73

     Fejhallgató kimenet (3-4 kimenet)................74

     Mikrofon bemenet ..........................................76

7.   KOMPATIBILITÁS ....................................... 78

     USB Audio / USB MIDI ...................................78

     ASIO és Windows® vezérlőpult ....................78

     Firmware frissítés...........................................81

     A DJ kontroller tesztelése a vezérlőpulton 82

8.   DEMÓ MÓD ................................................. 86

9.   GYIK ............................................................. 87
A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 egy teljes értékű
kontroller, amelyet úgy terveztek, hogy a két motorizált
lemeztányérnak, a videós oktatóanyagoknak, valamint a
DJUCED és a Serato DJ Lite szoftver integrációjának
köszönhetően       segítsen       elsajátítani   a   bakelit
lemezjátszók művészetét.




A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 a Serato DJ Lite-hoz
tartalmaz licencet és nem a Serato DJ Pro-hoz.
A Serato DJ Lite korlátlanul használható.
Ha a Serato DJ Pro-t telepíti a Serato DJ Lite helyett,
akkor a Serato DJ Pro működni fog a DJControl
Inpulse T7-tel, de csak a próbaidőszak alatt. Ha a
próbaidőszak leteltével is szeretné a Serato DJ Pro-t
tovább használni, akkor meg kell vásárolnia a Serato
DJ Pro licencet.



                              4
A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollerrel való
mixelés elsajátításához számos videós oktatóanyag
áll rendelkezésre:
  − Hercules DJ Academy (angolul):
        o a DJUCED-ban az      ikonra kattintva.
        o a DJUCED weboldalon.
  − A Hercules Audio YouTube csatornán (angolul).
  − The DJ Coach, a DJ HAPA által tartott
    tanfolyamokkal a Serato DJ Lite-on (angolul).




                         5
 1.     Doboz tartalma

DJControl Inpulse T7

 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7
 − Két bakelitlemez (17,8 cm)
 − Két filc alátét
 − Fonott USB kábel
 − Eltávolítható áramkábel
 − Tápadapter
 − Felhasználói kézikönyv
 − Termékszavatossági tájékoztató




                         6
A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrolleren lévő VU
mérőt fedő védőfóliát eltávolíthatja. A védőfóliát a
helyén is hagyhatja, mivel az nem befolyásolja a VU
mérő használatát.




                         7
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                  8
 − Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
 − Két bakelitlemez (17,8 cm)
 − Két filc alátét
 − Két vékony filc alátét
 − Fonott USB kábel
 − Eltávolítható áramkábel
 − Tápadapter
 − Hordozó táska
 − Felhasználói kézikönyv
 − Termékszavatossági tájékoztató




A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition
kontrolleren    lévő   VU       mérőt   fedő   védőfóliát
eltávolíthatja. A védőfóliát a helyén is hagyhatja, mivel
az nem befolyásolja a VU mérő használatát.




                            9
  2.     Technikai specifikációk
Rendszerkövetelmények:
  − DJUCED:
     https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/
     (angolul)
  − Serato DJ Lite:
     https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq
     uirements#system-requirements (angolul)


Hang kimenetek:
             o Felbontás = 24-bit
             o Mintavételi frekvencia = 44,1 kHz


Master kimenetek a hangszórók számára (1-2. kimenet)
a következőket használva:
  − Két RCA csatlakozó:
             o Max. kimeneti teljesítmény = 7 dBU @ 1 kΩ
  − Két XLR csatlakozó (kiegyenlített):
             o Max. kimeneti teljesítmény = 13 dBU @ 1 kΩ


Fejhallgató kimenet (3-4. kimenet) egy 3,5 mm sztereó
mini-jack és egy 6,35 mm sztereó jack csatlakozón
keresztül:
             o Max. kimeneti teljesítmény = 5 dBU 32Ω @
                 1 kHz-hez


Mikrofon bemenet egy 6,35 mm jack csatlakozón
keresztül (kiegyenlített)
                             10
                    Tápegység
− Csak    a    használati        útmutatóban   megadott
  tápegységet használja.
− Kizárólag    a    tápegység        teljesítménytábláján
  feltüntetett hálózati feszültséggel és frekvenciával
  használja a tápegységet.




                            11
       A tápegységre vonatkozó információk
Közzétett információk              Érték         Egység
  A gyártó neve vagy           GUILLEMOT
       védjegye             CORPORATION S.A.
   Cégjegyzékszám           414 196 758 R.C.S.
                                 Vannes
          Cím                2 Rue du Chêne
                                 Héleuc
                              56910 Carentoir
                              Franciaország
   Modell azonosítór         A481-1852590D
 Bemeneti feszültség              100 - 240        V
Bemeneti AC frekvencia             50 - 60        Hz
  Kimeneti feszültség               18.5         V DC
Kimeneti áramerősség                 2.6           A
 Kimeneti teljesítmény              47.9           W
Aktív üzemmódban mért               87.8           %
    átlagos hatásfok
   Hatásfok alacsony                87.8           %
 (10 %-os) terhelésnél
 Üresjáratú üzemmódban              0.10           W
fellépő energiafogyasztás




                             12
 3.     Jellemzők

Áttekintés




 1. Motorizált lemeztányér
 2. Átviteli gombok (Play, Cue, Sync, Shift)
 3. Loop vezérlők (Loop)
 4. Zeneszám kiválasztó vezérlők (Browser, Load,
      Assist./Prep.)
 5. Tempo fader (Pitch fader)
 6. Padek és módok
 7. Lejátszási módok
 8. Ellenőrzés, hangerők (Master, Fejhallgató és
      Mikrofon) és Beatmatch Guide
 9. Mixelő rész (Gain, EQ, Filter)
 10. Mixelő (Crossfader, hangerő faderek)
 11. Effektek




                         13
Deckek

  1. Motorizált lemeztányér




Filc alátét: a motorizált lemeztányér és a bakelitlemez
között   található.    Megvédi      a   bakelitlemezt   a
lemeztányérral való súrlódástól, és csökkenti a lemez
lejátszásakor fellépő rezgéseket.




 Mindig ügyeljen arra, hogy a filcből készült alátétet a
 motorizált   lemeztányérra       helyezze,   mielőtt   a
 bakelitlemezt felhelyezi.




                             14
Bakelitlemez: lehetővé teszi a szkreccselést, a lejátszás
gyorsítását vagy lassítását, valamint a zeneszámon
belüli mozgást.
A bakelitlemez címkéjén lévő vonal a keverés és a
szkerccselés referenciapontja (azaz jelölője).


A végrehajtott művelet két kritériumtól függ:
  − lejátszott vagy szüneteltetett zeneszám;
  − a bakelitlemez érintésének helye (teteje (top) vagy
    gyűrű (ring)).


                          Teteje




     Gyűrű




                            15
Bakelitlemez műveletek a Serato DJ Lite-al és Serato DJ
Pro-val:


                        Motorizált
 Lejátszás/Szünet                         SHIFT gomb
                       lemeztányér
     Lejátszás             Teteje                  -
                      Szkreccselés
     Lejátszás         Teteje/Gyűrű       Lenyomva tart
           Gyors mozgás a zeneszámon belül
     Lejátszás             Gyűrű                   -
           A lejátszás gyorsítása vagy lassítása
   Szüneteltetés       Teteje /Gyűrű               -
           Lassú mozgás a zeneszámon belül
   Szüneteltetés       Teteje /Gyűrű      Lenyomva tart
           Gyors mozgás a zeneszámon belül




                           16
Bakelitlemez műveletek a DJUCED-al:


                      Motorizált
 Lejátszás/Szünet                       SHIFT gomb
                     lemeztányér
     Lejátszás          Teteje                   -
                    Szkreccselés
     Lejátszás       Teteje/ Gyűrű     Lenyomva tart
          Gyors mozgás a zeneszámon belül
     Lejátszás          Gyűrű                    -
         A lejátszás gyorsítása vagy lassítása
   Szüneteltetés        Gyűrű                    -
          Lassú mozgás a zeneszámon belül




                         17
Motorizált lemeztányér: meghajtja a bakelitlemezt,
amely a tempo faderrel beállított tempónak megfelelően
szabályozza a zeneszám lejátszását és a zeneszám
sebességét.


Ha a Beatmatch Guide funkció be van kapcsolva, a
BEAT ALIGN vizuális útmutatók jelzik, hogy milyen
irányba kell elforgatni a motorizált lemeztányér gyűrűjét
(azaz     peremét)    a   két        zeneszám   ütemrácsának
összehangolásához. Amikor a két piros nyíl nem világít,
az ütemrácsok igazodnak egymáshoz.


A Beatmatch Guide funkcióval kapcsolatos további
információkért olvassa el a Beatmatch Guide részt.




 A tányérok motorizálása nem kapcsolható ki.




   − Amikor a motorizált lemeztányér forog, ne tartsa a
        kezével   megállítva     nagyon    sokáig,   nehogy
        megsérüljön a meghajtórendszer.
   − Amikor a bakelitlemezt a motorizált lemeztányérra
        helyezi, ne erőltesse. Ezzel a bakelitlemez
        közepének sérülését kockáztatja.

                                18
  2. Átviteli gombok




SHIFT: vegyes vezérlés. Például:
  − SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): a zeneszám zenei
    kulcsát rögzíti.
  − SHIFT + IN: DJUCED®-ban, a loop hosszát elosztja
    kettővel.


SYNC: be vagy kikapcsolja két zeneszám BPM-jének
(percenkénti ütésszám) automatikus szinkronizálást.
  − SHIFT + SYNC:
      o DJUCED-ban: a decket a fő szinkronizáló
        (Master Sync) decké teszi.
      o Serato         DJ   Lite-ban:   kikapcsolja   a
        szinkronizálást a decken.




                            19
CUE: beilleszt egy Cue pontot a zeneszámba, hogy
azonosítson     egy   adott    pillanatot,      vagy    a   deck
lejátszófejét a Cue pont helyzetére mozgatja.
  − Zeneszám szüneteltetés: beszúr egy Cue pontot
    arra a helyre, ahol a zeneszám megállt.
  − Zeneszám      lejátszás:       megállítja    a     zeneszám
    lejátszását, és a deck lejátszófejét a Cue pontra
    mozgatja.
      o DJUCED-ban, ha nincs Cue pont definiálva, a
        CUE megnyomásával a lejátszás megáll, és
        egy Cue pontot helyez el a lejátszófej helyén.
      o Serato DJ Lite-ban, ha nincs Cue pont definiálva,
        a CUE megnyomásával a lejátszás megáll, és
        egy Cue pontot helyez a zeneszám elejére.
  − CUE + PLAY: a lejátszófejet a Cue pontra mozgatja,
    és a zeneszámot ettől a ponttól kezdve játssza le.
  − SHIFT + CUE:
      o DJUCED-ban: a lejátszófejet a zeneszám
        elejére mozgatja, és leállítja a lejátszást.
      o Serato DJ Lite-ban: a lejátszófejet a zeneszám
        elejére mozgatja, és elindítja a lejátszást.


Lejátszás/Szüneteltetés: elindítja vagy szünetelteti a
zeneszámot.
  − SHIFT + PLAY: Serato DJ Lite-ban a lejátszófejet a
    Cue pontra mozgatja, és a zeneszámot ettől a
    jelölőtől kezdve játssza le.

                              20
  3. Loop vezérlők




AUTOLOOP enkóder:
  − Nyomja meg az enkódert: be/kikapcsolja a loop
    lejátszását.
  − Fordítsa el az enkódert: a loop hosszát állítja be.


IN/OUT: a kezdő pont (IN) és a végpont (OUT)
kiválasztásával lehetővé teszi a loop létrehozását.
Amikor a loop aktív (vagyis be van kapcsolva):
  − Nyomja meg: IN (gomb villog) és forgassa a
     motorizált    lemeztányért   a       loop     kezdetének
     mozgatásához.
  − Nyomja meg: OUT (gomb villog) és forgassa a
     motorizált    lemeztányért       a     loop     végének
     mozgatásához.
A loopból az AUTOLOOP enkóder megnyomásával
léphet ki.
DJUCED®-ban
  − SHIFT + IN: az aktív loop méretét osztja kettővel.
  − SHIFT + OUT: az aktív loop méretét megszorozza
     kettővel.
  − Hosszan nyomja az IN-t: négyütemű loopot aktivál.
                        21
  4. Zeneszám kiválasztó vezérlők




BROWSER enkóder*: lehetővé teszi a zenetárban és a
zeneszám listában való böngészést az enkóder balra
(felfelé) vagy jobbra (lefelé) történő elfordításával.
Nyomja meg az enkódert a mappák kiválasztásához, és
töltse be a kiválasztott zeneszámot a céldeckre.


Világító gyűrű:
  − DJUCED-ban, a fő zeneszám energiaszintjét,
     mutatja a tempóhoz.
  − Serato DJ Lite-ban, megmutatja a ritmust. A fény a
     zeneszám ütemére villog:
            o Piros: az első ütemet jelzi.
            o Kék: a következő három ütemet jelzi.




                             22
ASSIST./PREP.*:
  − DJUCED-ban, megjeleníti a panelt, amely a
    legjobb    következő        zeneszámokat   javasolja    a
    mixedhez.
    A     javasolt        zeneszámok      listájában     való
    böngészéshez forgassa el a BROWSER enkódert.
    Egy zeneszám kiválasztásához nyomja meg a
    BROWSER enkódert. A már betöltött zeneszámot
    szüneteltetni kell.
    Nyomja meg az ASSIST./PREP.-et és forgassa el
    az       enkódert       a      javasolt    zeneszámok
    energiaszintjének beállításához.
  − Serato    DJ     Lite-ban,    az   aktuálisan   lejátszott
    zeneszámot a Prepare (Előkészítés) listához adja.
    SHIFT + ASSIST./PREP.: megnyitja a Prepare
    (Előkészítés) panelt.


BACK*: lehetővé teszi, hogy a DJUCED és a Serato
DJ Lite könyvtárstruktúrájában mozogjon.
  − DJUCED-ban, nyomja meg a SHIFT és a BACK-et
    a Könyvtárstruktúrához való visszatéréshez.




* A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.
                            23
  5. Tempo fader




Tempo fader: a BPM számának beállításával állítja be a
zeneszám lejátszási sebességét.
  − Felhúzva: lassítja a zeneszámot.
  − Lehúzva: gyorsítja a zeneszámot.
  − Tempo        fader     középen:    a   zeneszám    eredeti
     sebessége. A fehér LED világít.


Ha a Beatmatch Guide funkció be van kapcsolva, a
vizuális TEMPO segítség jelzi, hogy a tempo fader-t
felfelé   vagy    lefelé    kell-e    mozgatni   a   zeneszám
lassításához vagy gyorsításához. Amikor a két piros nyíl
ki van kapcsolva, az adott deck tempója megegyezik a
másik deck tempójával.


A Beatmatch Guide funkcióval kapcsolatos további
információkért olvassa el a Beatmatch Guide részt.



                                24
A Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban, ha a Sync
mód engedélyezve van, a SHIFT lenyomásával és a
tempo fader egyidejű mozgatásával a tempo fader
értékeit mozgathatja az amplitúdó megtartása mellett.


Például egy ±8%, vagy 16%-os amplitúdójú tempóskála
esetén a tempo fader értékeit úgy mozgathatja, hogy 0%
(maximum) és -16% (minimum) között legyen, ami még
mindig 16%-os amplitúdót eredményez, -8%-kal a
középen.




                          25
RANGE*:     lehetővé    teszi   a    tempó       fader-ek
tempóskálájának megváltoztatását.
  − DJUCED-ban: ± 6 %, ± 8 %, ± 10 %, ± 12 %,
    ± 16 %, ± 20 %, ± 25 %, ± 33 %, ± 50 %.
  − Serato DJ Lite-ban: ± 8 %, ± 16 %, ± 50 %.
SHIFT + RANGE (KEYLOCK): rögzíti a zeneszám zenei
kulcsát.
A zenei kulcs rögzítéséhez nyomja le a SHIFT-et. A
RANGE gomb kigyullad.




* A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.
                          26
  6. Padek és módok




Mód gombok: akár nyolc mód engedélyezése.
Egy fő mód engedélyezéséhez nyomja meg a HOT
CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 vagy SAMPLER 4 gombokat.
Egy másodlagos mód (MODE 5, MODE 6, MODE 7 és
MODE 8), engedélyezéséhez nyomja meg egyszerre a
SHIFT és HOT CUE 1, LOOP 2, STEMS 3 vagy
SAMPLER 4 gombokat. A mód gomb világít.
A padeken engedélyezett módok a használt szoftvertől
függően változnak.


A DJUCED, Serato DJ Lite és Serato DJ Pro különböző
módjaival kapcsolatos további információért olvassa el a
Módok és padek részt.


Tevékenység padek: a pad egy tevékenységet hajt
végre.




                          27
  7. Lejátszási módok




INSTRUMENTAL: lehetővé teszi, hogy csak a dallam, a
basszus és a dob részeket játssza le. Ez a Stems mód
gyorsgombja.
  − Ha csak a dallam-, basszus- és dobszólamot
    szeretné lejátszani egy számban, nyomja meg az
    INSTRUMENTAL gombot. A gomb kigyullad.
  − A zeneszám összes részének (Ének, Dallam,
    Basszusgitár és Dob) lejátszásának folytatásához
    nyomja meg újra az INSTRUMENTAL gombot. A
    gomb fénye kialszik.




                           28
SHIFT + INSTRUMENTAL: engedélyezi a Slip módot.
Slip módban a deck lejátszófeje a háttérben tovább
halad, amikor effektet vagy loopot alkalmaz, Cue pontot
helyez el, vagy amikor a motorizált lemeztányérokat
használja. Amikor leállítja egy effekt alkalmazását, a
lejátszás onnan folytatódik, ahol a zeneszám állna, ha a
lejátszás folytatódott volna.
Ha meg akar győződni arról, hogy a Slip mód be van
kapcsolva,     nyomja       meg      a   SHIFT-et.   Az
INSTRUMENTAL gomb kigyullad.




A Serato DJ Lite nem rendelkezik Slip móddal.
A Serato DJ Pro rendelkezik Slip móddal.




                                29
VOCAL: lehetővé teszi, hogy csak az Ének részt játssza
le. Ez a Stems mód gyorsgombja.
  − Ha csak az Ének részt szeretné lejátszani egy
    zeneszámban, nyomja meg a VOCAL gombot. A
    gomb kigyullad.
  − A zeneszám összes részének (Ének, Dallam,
    Basszusgitár és Dob) lejátszásának folytatásához
    nyomja meg újra a VOCAL gombot. A gomb fénye
    kialszik.


SHIFT + VOCAL: a Kvantálás mód bekapcsolása. A
Kvantálás a rács következő leütésére alkalmazza a
műveletet (zeneszám lejátszása, Cue pont elhelyezése,
loop elindítása…).
Annak érdekében, hogy a Kvantálás mód be legyen
kapcsolva, nyomja meg a SHIFT-et. A VOCAL gomb
kigyullad.




A Serato DJ Lite nem rendelkezik Kvantálás móddal.
A Serato DJ Pro rendelkezik Kvantálás móddal.




                         30
       (pitch bend -) /        (pitch bend +): lehetővé teszi,
hogy    manuálisan        összehangolja    az   adott    decken
lejátszott   zeneszám        ütemrácsát     a    másik     deck
ütemrácsával.
  − Nyomja meg és tartsa lenyomva                        , hogy
     pillanatnyilag lelassítsa a decket.
  − Nyomja meg és tartsa lenyomva                          hogy
     pillanatnyilag felgyorsítsa a decket.




 Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban, SHIFT +
         és SHIFT +                 segítségével bizonyos
 módokban (Beállítások) módosíthatja a beállításokat.




                               31
Mixelés

  8. Ellenőrzés, hangerő és Beatmatch Guide




MIC hangerő: a mikrofon hangerejének beállítása.


MIC világító gyűrű: a hangjel szintjét jelzi (VU mérő).
  − Kikapcsolva: nincs hangjelzés.
  − Zöld: a hangjelzés lejátszása folyamatban van.
  − Piros: a hangjel telített.


MASTER hangerő: a hangszórókon lejátszott mix
hangerejét állítja be.


MASTER VU mérő: a hangszórók számára a Master
kimenet (RCA vagy XLR) hangjelének szintjét jeleníti
meg.


                             32
HEADPHONES hangerő:
 −         /       : a fejhallgatón lejátszott jelet állítja be, a
     Cue kimenet (az 1. és 2. deckek monitorozása) és a
     Mix kimenet (Master kimenet) keverésével.
       o Ha csak az ellenőrzést szeretné hallgatni,
           nyomja meg az 1-es és 2-es deckek Monitoring
           gombjait. A gombok világítanak. Ezután állítsa
           a gombot Cue állásba.
       o Ha csak a Master kimenetet szeretné hallgatni,
           nyomja meg a Master Monitoring gombot. A
           gomb kigyullad. Ezután állítsa a gombot Mix
           állásba,     hogy     beállíthasa    a    fejhallgatón
           lejátszott keverést.
 −             : a fejhallgató kimenetének hangerejét állítja
     be.




                                33
Ellenőrzés (monitoring): kiválasztja a fejhallgatón
lejátszott hangforrást.
  −         (a MASTER VU mérő alatt található): a
      lejátszott mix hangját játssza le hangosan a
      közönség számára.
  −       * (a BEATMATCH GUIDE gomb két oldalán
      található): az 1. vagy a 2. deck hangját játssza le,
      ha a Cue/Mix gomb Cue-ra van állítva.
A Serato DJ Lite-ban nyomja meg a SHIFT és a             *
gombot (a BEATMATCH GUIDE gomb mellett), hogy
módosítsa az adott decken lejátszott szám ütemrácsát.
Az ütemrács szerkesztési módból való kilépéshez
kattintson az Edit Grid (Ütemrács szerkesztése) gombra.




* A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.
                            34
BEATMATCH          GUIDE:   be   vagy    kikapcsolja   a
fényvezetőket a tempó beállításához és a két zeneszám
ütemrácsának összehangolásához. Deckenként négy
piros nyíl található.




 A DJUCED® az egyik decket fő szinkronizáló (Master
 Sync) deckként, a másikat pedig aldeckként határozza
 meg. A piros nyilak csak az aldecknél világítanak,
 mivel ez a deck követi a fő szinkronizáló deck
 tempóját.
 A Serato DJ Lite nem határoz meg fő szinkronizációs
 decket. A piros nyilak mindkét decken világítanak.




                            35
− TEMPO vizuális segítség: ha a tempo fader jobb
 oldalán található két piros nyíl közül az egyik világít,
 ez azt jelenti, hogy az ezen a decken lejátszott
 zeneszám tempója (azaz a percenkénti ütésszám)
 eltér a másik deck tempójától.
 A nyilak jelzik, hogy milyen irányba kell mozgatnia a
 tempo fadert ahhoz, hogy a lejátszott zeneszám
 tempóját a másik deck tempójához igazítsa.
        o Felső nyíl világít: mozgassa a tempo fadert
          felfelé. Ez lelassítja a tempót.
        o Alsó nyíl világít: mozgassa a tempo fadert
          lefelé. Ez felgyorsítja a tempót.
        o Nem világítanak a nyilak: a deck tempója
          megegyezik      a   fő   szinkronizáló   deck
          tempójával.




                         36
− BEAT ALIGN vizuális segítség: ha a motorizált
 lemeztányér alatt található két piros nyíl közül az
 egyik világít., ez azt jelenti, hogy az ezen a decken
 lejátszott     zeneszám        ütemei       nincsenek
 összehangolva a másik deck ütemeivel.
 A nyilak jelzik, hogy milyen irányban kell elforgatni a
 motorizált lemeztányért annak érdekében, hogy a
 lejátszott zeneszám ütemeit összehangolja a másik
 deck ütemeivel.
        o A bal nyíl világít: forgassa a motorizált
          lemeztányért     az   óramutató     járásával
          megegyező irányba. Ez felgyorsítja a
          lejátszási sebességet.
        o Jobb nyíl világít: forgassa a motorizált
          lemeztányért     az   óramutató     járásával
          ellentétes irányba. Ez lelassítja a lejátszási
          sebességet.
        o Nem világítanak a nyilak: a deck ütemei
          össze vannak hangolva a másik deck
          ütemeivel.




                         37
    9. Mixelő rész




GAIN forgókapcsoló*: az erősítést (azaz a hangerő
fader előtti hangerőszintet) állítja be.


3    sávos   kiegyenlítő     (EQ)*:   az   EQ   intenzitását
szabályozza. Minden sávhoz egy forgókapcsoló tartozik:
HIGH, MID és LOW.


FILTER forgókapcsoló*: a kettős szűrő (magas- és
aluláteresztő) frekvenciáját állítja be.




* A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.

                             38
  10.       Mixelő




VU mérő: megjeleníti az 1. és 2. deck hangjelének
szintjét.


Hangerő fader*: a deck hangerejét szabályozza.


Crossfader: lehetővé teszi az átmenetet két zeneszám
között az egyik deck hangerejének növelésével, míg a
másik deck hangerejének csökkentésével.
  − Crossfader teljesen balra: csak az 1.-es decken
     lévő zeneszámot hallja.
  − Crossfader teljesen jobbra: csak az 2.-es decken
     lévő zeneszámot hallja.
  − Crossfader középen: egyszerre hallja az 1.-es és 2.-
     es decken szóló zeneszámot.

                           39
Görbe     kapcsoló:     lehetővé   teszi   a    crossfader
görbéjének módosítását.
  −       (mix): a két deck progresszív keverése.
  −       (scratch): a két deck nagyon gyors keverése.
  −        (kikapcsolva): a crossfader kikapcsolása, a
      keveréshez csak a hangerő fadert használja.




A Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban,
módosíthatja a crossfader beállításokat. Menjen a
Beállításokba, majd a Mixer-be:
 − Power       (Teljesítmény):     gyors       görbe     a
   szkreccseléshez.
 − Linear (Lineáris): progresszív görbe a keveréshez.
 − Reverse (Fordított): megfordítja a crossfader irányát,
   "Hamster" módként is ismert.




*A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.

                            40
  11.       Effektek




Az effekt rack (tálca) megjelenítéséhez:
  − DJUCED-ban: kattintson ide               .
  − Serato DJ Lite-ban: kattintson ide            .


Effekt gombok          /    /    *: segítségével kiválaszthat
egy effektet az effekt tálcáról. A gomb világít.
Egy effekt bekapcsolásához használja a tevékenység
kapcsolót.
A gombokhoz kapcsolódó effektek módosításához                       /
   /     , válasszon ki egy új effektet az effekt tálcán.
Serato      DJ   Lite-ban       és       Serato   DJ       Pro-ban,
megnyomhatja a SHIFT és              ,    vagy        az effekt lista
megjelenítéséhez, majd nyomja meg újra a SHIFT és
   vagy      , nézze végig a listát és válasszon ki egy új
effektet.




Serato DJ Lite-ban:
− Lehetőség van több effekt egyidejű kombinálására.

                                41
− A bal oldali három effekt       /      /     a bal decket
  módosítja (1-es deck), és a jobb oldali három effekt
       /   /   a jobb decket módosítja (2-es deck).
A Serato DJ Pro-ban a két három effektgombból álló
csoport a két virtuális deckre vonatkozik.


Tevékenység kapcsoló*: bekapcsolja a             ,      vagy
gombokra betöltött effekteket. Három különböző pozíció
létezik:
  − HOLD: folyamatosan engedélyezi az effektet, amíg
       a kapcsoló ebben a helyzetben van.
  − ON: pillanatnyilag engedélyezi az effektet, amíg a
       kapcsoló ebben a helyzetben van.
  − Középső helyzet: az effekt kikapcsolása.


DEPTH forgókapcsoló:         az       effekt   intenzitásának
beállítása.


   /       gombok:    a   zenével       szinkronizált     effekt
ciklusának időtartamát állítja be.




 A DJUCED nem tartalmazza ezt a funkciót.


* A funkciók az 1-es és a 2-es decken azonosak.


                            42
Csatlakozók




  12.    Fő kimenet hangszórókhoz (1-2 kimenet)
  13.    Kiegyenlített mikrofon bemenet
  14.    USB-B 2.0 port
  15.    POWER gomb
  16.    Tápadapter csatlakozó
  17.    Fejhallgató kimenet (3-4 kimenet)


Fő kimenet hangszórókhoz (1-2 kimenet): lehetővé
teszi az aktív hangszórók csatlakoztatását.
Formátum: 2 x nem kiegyenlített RCA (Cinch) és 2 x
kiegyenlített XLR.


Kiegyenlített   mikrofon    bemenet:      lehetővé   teszi
kiegyenlített   vagy      nem    kiegyenlített   mikrofon
csatlakoztatását.
Formátum: 6,35 mm jack.


                           43
USB-B      2.0 port:    lehetővé    teszi       a     kontroller
számítógéphez való csatlakoztatását.


KI/BEKAPCSOLÓ gomb:           a    DJControl         Inpulse T7
kontroller ki-és bekapcsolása.


Tápadapter csatlakozó: lehetővé teszi a tápkábel
csatlakoztatását és a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller
csatlakoztatását egy elektromos konnektorba az adapter
segítségével.


Fejhallgató kimenet (3-4 kimenet): lehetővé teszi,
hogy    fejhallgatót   csatlakoztasson      a       zeneszámok
monitorozásához.
Formátum: 3,5 mm sztereó mini-jack csatlakozó és 6,35
mm sztereó jack csatlakozó.




                            44
Húzza ki a négy kihúzható lábat a DJControl
Inpulse T7 kontroller megemeléséhez, és vezesse el
alatta a kábeleket.




− A DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller szállítása előtt,
  csukja be a lábakat.
− Ha    nem    használja    a   DJControl   Inpulse T7
  kontrollert, csukja be a lábakat.
− Ha a lábak ki vannak húzva, ne nyomja le a
  DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollert több mint 5 kg / 50
  newton erővel.




                           45
 4.     Telepítés

Csatlakozás
 1. Csatlakoztassa        a        tápadaptert    a   DJControl
   Inpulse T7 kontrollerhez.
 2. Csatlakoztassa a tápkábelt a tápadapterhez, és
   csatlakoztassa azt egy konnektorba.
 3. Csatlakoztassa        az       USB   kábelt   a   DJControl
   Inpulse T7 kontrollerhez és a számítógéphez.
 4. Nyomja meg a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrolleren
   található POWER gombot. a gomb benyomódik.
 5. Győződjön meg róla, hogy a hangszórók ki vannak
   kapcsolva,      vagy       ha    külső   erősítőhöz   vannak
   csatlakoztatva, akkor az erősítő ki van kapcsolva.
   Csatlakoztassa az aktív hangszórók bemeneteit a
   DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller hangszórókhoz való
   Master kimeneteihez (2 x RCA vagy 2 x XLR).
 6. Állítsa a MASTER hangerőt a DJControl Inpulse T7
   kontrolleren a minimális szintre, majd kapcsolja be a
   hangszórókat.
 7. Helyezze a fejhallgatót a nyakára (és ne a fülére),
   majd csatlakoztassa a fejhallgatót a 3,5 mm-es
   mini-jack csatlakozóhoz vagy a 6,35 mm-es jack
   csatlakozóhoz.
 8. Csatlakoztassa a mikrofont a Mikrofon bemenethez
   (opcionális).



                                   46
                    Tápegység
− Csak    a   használati        útmutatóban    megadott
 tápegységet használja.
− A      tápegységet       csak          a     tápegység
 teljesítménytábláján           feltüntetett     hálózati
 feszültséggel és frekvenciával használja.


                           47
− Lehetőség van mindkét kimeneti formátum (XLR és
  RCA) egyidejű használatára - például úgy, hogy egy
  kimeneti   párt   a   PA     (hangosító   berendezés)
  rendszerhez, egy másik kimeneti párt pedig a
  monitorozó hangszórókhoz csatlakoztat.
− Egy Vegas Mode nevű LED világítási sor indul el
  minden alkalommal, amikor a DJControl Inpulse T7
  kontrollert a számítógéphez csatlakoztatja. A Vegas
  Mode négy fázisban zajlik, lehetővé téve az összes
  LED megvilágítását és a különböző lehetséges
  színek megjelenítését a padeken és a BROWSER
  enkóderek háttérvilágított gyűrűin.




                          48
A szoftver letöltése

DJUCED

     1. Látogasson el: https://www.djuced.com/hercules.
     2. Töltse le és telepítse a DJUCED®-t.
     3. Látogasson el ide:
       https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
       pulset7/ (angolul).
     4. Töltse le és telepítse a számítógép operációs
       rendszeréhez tartozó illesztőprogramcsomagot.
              o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
              o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
        A Windows® megkívánja az illesztőprogramok
        telepítését, hogy a DJControl Inpulse T7-et ASIO
        módban használhassa, amely a WASAPI módhoz
        képest csökkenti a késleltetést, és általában
        stabilabb.
        Az illesztőprogramok segítségével tesztelheti a
        DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollerét, és ellenőrizheti a
        firmware     verzióját    Windows®    és   macOS®.
        rendszerben is.
5.     Indítsa el a DJUCED szoftvert. Megjelenik egy
       ablak, hogy a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollert
       sikeresen felismerte, és készen áll a használatra.




                                 49
 A szoftver első futtatásakor a DJUCED® végigvezeti Önt
 a fejhallgató és az aktív hangszórók csatlakoztatásán
 (vagy a számítógépbe épített hangszórók használatán,
 ha nincs külső aktív hangszórója). Kövesse a képernyőn
 megjelenő információkat lépésről lépésre.


Hang beálíltások:
A     DJUCED®-ban         a   hangkártya       beállításainak
módosításához kattintson a képernyő jobb felső részén
található fogaskerék ikonra        . Megjelenik a Beállítások
menü.
Válassza az Audio (Hang) fület és rendelje hozzá a
kimeneteket a fejhallgatóhoz és a hangszórókhoz.


A Windows® szabványos beállítása a következő:
    − Audio device (Hangeszköz): DJControl Inpulse T7
      ASIO (ASIO)
    − Output (Kimenet):
            o Master: Outputs 1&2
            o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                              50
A macOS® szabványos beállítása a következő:
  − Audio device (Hangeszköz): DJControl Inpulse T7
  − Output (Kimenet):
          o Master: Outputs 1&2
          o Headphones: Outputs 3&4




                         51
Serato DJ Lite

 1. Menjen ide: https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads.
 2. Töltse le és telepítse a Serato DJ Lite-ot.
 3. Látogasson el ide:
   https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin
   pulset7/ (angolul).
 4. Töltse le és telepítse a számítógép operációs
   rendszeréhez tartozó illesztőprogramcsomagot.
          o macOS®: HDJC Series Mac
          o Windows®: HDJC Series PC
    A Windows® megkívánja az illesztőprogramok
    telepítését, hogy a DJControl Inpulse T7-et ASIO
    módban használhassa, amely a WASAPI módhoz
    képest csökkenti a késleltetést, és általában
    stabilabb.
    Az illesztőprogramok segítségével tesztelheti a
    DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollerét, és ellenőrizheti a
    firmware     verzióját    Windows®     és     macOS®.
    rendszerben is.




                             52
A Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 a Serato DJ Lite-hoz
tartalmaz licencet és nem a Serato DJ Pro-hoz.
A Serato DJ Lite korlátlanul használható.
Ha a Serato DJ Pro-t telepíti a Serato DJ Lite helyett,
akkor a Serato DJ Pro működni fog a DJControl
Inpulse T7-tel, de csak a próbaidőszak alatt. Ha a
próbaidőszak leteltével is szeretné a Serato DJ Pro-t
tovább használni, akkor meg kell vásárolnia a Serato
DJ Pro licencet.




                          53
  5.     Dobja fel a mixét
Különböző módokon dobhatja fel a mixét.



Módok és padek

A padek

DJUCED-ban,      az    1-8     padek     az     aktuálisan
engedélyezett módnak megfelelő műveleteket hajtják
végre.


Serato DJ Lite-ban, az 1-4. padek az aktuálisan
engedélyezett módnak megfelelő műveleteket hajtják
végre. Az 5-8 padek a következő műveleteket hajtják
végre:
  − Pad 5: Reverse (visszafelé történő lejátszás)
  − Pad 6: visszatekerés
  − Pad 7: gyors előretekerés
  − Pad 8: Censor. Ezzel a művelettel a pad lenyomva
    tartása   közben    visszafelé      játszhatja   le   a
    zeneszámot. A pad felengedése után a lejátszás
    onnan folytatódik, ahol a zeneszám állna, ha a
    lejátszás normálisan folytatódott volna. Ez arra
    használható, hogy elfedje a trágár nyelvezetet egy
    dalban.




                           54
A padeken engedélyezett módok a használt szoftvertől
függően változnak:


 Módok DJUCED Serato DJ Lite Serato DJ Pro**

    1      Hot Cue       Hot Cue            Hot Cue

    2     Loop Roll     Auto Loop           Auto Loop
    3      Stems          Stems              Stems
    4     Sampler        Sampler            Sampler
    5     TonePlay          –               Pitch Play
    6      PadFX            –               Loop Roll
    7    Slicer Loop   Manual Loop     Manual Loop
    8     BeatJump     Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks
**Serato DJ Pro licencet nem tartalmazza.




                          55
Hot Cue mód

A Hot Cue pont egy olyan jelölő (mint egy könyvjelző),
amelyet elhelyezhet a zeneszámban, hogy könnyen
megtalálhassa ezt a pillanatot a zeneszámban, és utána
azonnal visszatérhessen hozzá.


DJUCED-ban zeneszámonként nyolc Hot Cue pontot
lehet beállítani.


Serato DJ Lite-ban, zeneszámonként négy Hot Cue
pontot lehet beállítani.
Serato DJ Pro-ban, zeneszámonként nyolc Hot Cue
pontot lehet beállítani.


  1. A Hot Cue módba való belépéshez nyomja meg a
     HOT CUE 1 gombot. A HOT CUE 1 gomb fénye
     világít.
  2. A Hot Cue pont beállításához nyomjon meg egy
     padet.
  3. A Hot Cue pontról történő lejátszáshoz nyomja meg
     a megfelelő padet.
  4. A Hot Cue pont eltávolításához nyomja meg
     egyszerre a SHIFT és a padet.




                           56
Loop mód




DJUCED -ban, ez a mód a Loop Roll módnak felel
meg. A deck lejátszófeje a háttérben tovább halad,
amikor loopot alkalmaz. Ha kikapcsolja a loopot, a
lejátszás onnan folytatódik, ahol a zeneszám állna, ha
a lejátszás folytatódott volna.
Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban, ez a mód
az Auto Loop módnak felel meg.


A loop a zeneszám egy olyan része, amely ismételten
lejátszásra kerül.


  1. A Loop módba való belépéshez nyomja meg a
    LOOP 2 gombot. A LOOP 2 gomb fénye világít.


DJUCED-ban:
  2. Egy loop alkalmazásához nyomja meg és tartson
    lenyomva egy padet.
  3. A loop kikapcsolásához, engedje el a megfelelő
    padet.


Serato DJ Lite-ban:
       2. Loop alkalmazásához nyomja meg egy padet.
       3. A loop kikapcsolásához, engedje el a megfelelő
         padet.
                             57
Loop hossza:

 Deck 1 / Deck 2   DJUCED     Serato DJ Lite

      Pad 1        1/16 ütem      1 ütem
      Pad 2         ⅛ ütem        2 ütem
      Pad 3         ¼ ütem        4 ütem
      Pad 4         ½ ütem        8 ütem
      Pad 5         1 ütem           -
      Pad 6         2 ütem           -
      Pad 7         4 ütem           -
      Pad 8         8 ütem           -




                    58
Stems mód

A Stems mód lehetővé teszi, hogy egy zeneszámot négy
különböző részre (ének és hangszerek), úgynevezett
"stems"-re osszon szét.


  1. A Stems módba való belépéshez, nyomja meg a
    STEMS 3-at. A STEMS 3 gomb fénye világít.
  2. Az 1-4. pad egy-egy stem-hez tartozik. Egy stem
    lejátszásának leállításához nyomja meg a megfelelő
    padet. A pad fénye kialszik.
  3. A stem lejátszásának folytatásához nyomja meg a
    megfelelő padet. A pad világít.


Stems:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Stem

           Pad 1                       Ének
           Pad 2                      Dallam
           Pad 3                      Basszus
           Pad 4                      Dobok




                          59
Amikor   először   engedélyezi   a   stems-eket   egy
zeneszámban, a szétválasztás nem mindig azonnali.
Ez eltarthat néhány pillanatig, amíg a DJ szoftver
elemzi a zeneszámot, és létrehozza a különböző
részeket (ének, dallam, basszus, dob).


Ne feledje, hogy elegendő időt kell hagynia a stems
szétválasztása és a lejátszás között. Miután a stems
különböző részei elkészültek, a stems lejátszása
azonnal megtörténik.


A Stems mód használatához nagy teljesítményű
számítógépre van szükség.




                          60
Sampler mód

A minta egy rövid hang, amelyet az éppen lejátszott
zeneszám fölött játszanak le: egyszer (jingle) vagy
ismétlésben (loop) is lejátszható.


DJUCED-ban az 1- 8. pad a többrétegű sampler első
két sorában található nyolc minta lejátszását teszi
lehetővé.
A többrétegű sampler megjelenítéséhez válassza a
2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers lehetőséget a képernyő
bal   felső    részén   található   legördülő   menüben   a
DJUCED -ban.


A Serato DJ Lite-ban, az 1-4. pad teszi lehetővé a minta
lejátszását.
A minták panel megjelenítéséhez kattintson ide            a
Serato DJ Lite-ban.


  1. A   Sampler    mód     eléréséhez,   nyomja   meg    a
      SAMPLER 4-et. A SAMPLER 4 gomb világít.
  2. Egy minta lejátszásához, nyomjon megy egy padet.
  3. Egy minta lejátszásának leállításához nyomja meg
      egyszerre a SHIFT és a megfelelő padet.




                              61
5-ös mód




A Serato DJ Lite nem tartalmazza az 5-ös módot
(TonePlay).
A Serato DJ Pro a Pitch 'n Time pluginnal együtt egy
Pitch Play módot kínál, amely ugyanazon az elven
működik, mint a TonePlay mód.


DJUCED-ban az 5-ös mód a TonePlay módnak felel
meg. Ez a mód lehetővé teszi egy Hot Cue pont
különböző hangszínekkel történő visszajátszását.


  1. Kapcsolja be a Hot Cue módot, majd válasszon ki
    egy Hot Cue pontot.
  2. Az 5-ös mód eléréséhez nyomja meg egyszerre a
    SHIFT és HOT CUE 1 gombot. A HOT CUE 1 gomb
    villog.
  3. A Hot Cue pont hangszínének módosításához
    nyomja meg a 2-8 pad egyikét.
  4. Az       eredeti   hangszínhez   az   1-es    pad
    megnyomásával térhet vissza.




                            62
A hangszín módosítása:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2              Hangszín

         Pad 1                Eredeti hangszín
         Pad 2                      +1
         Pad 3                      +2
         Pad 4                      +3
         Pad 5                      -1
         Pad 6                      -2
         Pad 7                      -3
         Pad 8                      -4




                         63
6-os mód




A Serato DJ Lite nem tartalmazza a 6-os módot.


DJUCED-ban a 6-os mód a PadFX módnak felel meg.
Ebben a módban a padek segítségével vezérelheti az
effekt rackben (tálca) lévő effekteket.
Az effekt néha egy szűrő vagy szűrők kombinációja,
amelyet egy zeneszámra alkalmaznak, hogy módosítsák
annak hangzását (visszhang, utózengés...).


Az effekt rack (tálca) megjelenítéséhez, kattintson ide


  1. A 6-os mód eléréséhez, nyomja meg egyszerre a
    SHIFT és LOOP 2 gombokat. A LOOP 2 gomb
    villog.
  2. Egy művelet végrehajtásához, nyomjon megy egy
    padet.
  3. Egy      effekt   kikapcsolásához    nyomja   meg    a
    megfelelő padet (1-3 pad).




                              64
Lehetséges műveletek:

Deck 1 / Deck 2                Effektek

     Pad 1              A tálca 1.-es effektje
     Pad 2              A tálca 2.-es effektje
     Pad 3              A tálca 3.-as effektje
     Pad 4        Megjeleníti/elrejti az effekt tálcát
     Pad 5         Módosítja az 1. effektet a tálcán
     Pad 6         Módosítja az 2. effektet a tálcán
     Pad 7         Módosítja az 3. effektet a tálcán
     Pad 8                         -




                         65
7-es mód




 DJUCED-ban, a 7-es mód a Slicer Loop módnak felel
 meg. A Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban a 7-
 es mód a Manual Loop módnak felel meg.


DJUCED-ban a 7-es mód a Slicer Loop módnak felel
meg. Ebben a módban az aktív loopot nyolc szakaszra
szeletelheti.


  1. A 7-es módba (Slicer Loop), való belépéshez
    nyomja meg egyszerre a SHIFT és STEMS 3-at. A
    STEMS 3 gomb villog.
  2. Egy    szakasz   loopként   történő   lejátszásához
    nyomjon meg és tartson lenyomva egy padet.
  3. Egy szakasz lejátszásának leállításához engedje el
    a megfelelő padet.




                           66
A Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban a 7-es mód
a Manual Loop módnak felel meg. Ebben az módban
manuálisan aktiválhat egy loopot.


  1. A 7.-es mód (Manual Loop) eléréséhez nyomja meg
    egyszerre a SHIFT és a STEMS 3 gombot. A
    STEMS 3 gomb villog.
  2. Egy művelet végrehajtásához nyomjon meg egy
    padet.


Lehetséges műveletek:

  Deck 1/2                      Effektek

    Pad 1       1. nyomás: beállítja a kezdőpontot (IN)
               2. nyomás: módosítja a kezdőpontot (IN)
    Pad 2      1. nyomás: beállítja a végpontot (OUT)
               2. nyomás: módosítja a végpontot (OUT)

    Pad 3               A loop ki/bekapcsolása
    Pad 4     A lejátszófejet a loop elejére mozgatja és
                     lejátssza a loopot (Reloop).

AUTOLOOP           Növeli/csökkenti a loop hosszát
 enkóder




                           67
8-as mód




DJUCED-ban, a 8-as mód a BeatJump módnak felel
meg. A Serato DJ Lite-ban és a Serato DJ Pro-ban, a
8-as gomb a Scratch Banks módnak felel meg.


DJUCED-ban a 8-as mód a BeatJump módnak felel
meg. Ebben az módban pontos ugrást végezhet a
zeneszámban.


  1. A 8-as mód eléréséhez (BeatJump), nyomja meg
    egyszerre      a   SHIFT    és   SAMPLER 4-et.    A
    SAMPLER 4 gomb villog.
  2. Az ugráshoz, nyomjon meg egy padet.


Az ugrás hossza:

    Deck 1 / Deck 2                   Ugrás

         Pad 1                  Visszamegy 1 ütemet
         Pad 2                  Előremegy 1 ütemet
         Pad 3                  Visszamegy 2 ütemet
         Pad 4                  Előremegy 2 ütemet
         Pad 5                  Visszamegy 4 ütemet
         Pad 6                  Előremegy 4 ütemet
         Pad 7                  Visszamegy 8 ütemet
         Pad 8                  Előremegy 8 ütemet
                           68
A Serato DJ Lite-ban és Serato DJ Pro-ban a 8-as mód
a Scratch Banks módnak felel meg. Ebben a módban
azonnal betölthet egy szkreccs mintát a deckre, hogy a
motorizált    lemeztányérral      szkerccseljen   az   éppen
lejátszott zeneszám helyett, majd gyorsan visszatérjen
az éppen lejátszott zeneszámhoz.
A szkreccs minták panel megjelenítéséhez kattintson ide
  a Serato DJ Lite-ban.


  1. A 8-as mód (Scratch Banks) eléréséhez, nyomja
    meg egyszerre a SHIFT és SAMPLER 4-et. A
    SAMPLER 4 gomb villog.
  2. Egy szkreccs minta lejátszásához nyomjon meg egy
    padet.
  3. A szkreccs minta lejátszásának leállításához és a
    korábban         lejátszott      zeneszámhoz        való
    visszatéréshez nyomja meg egyszerre a SHIFT-et
    és a megfelelő padet.


Minták:

     Deck 1 / Deck 2                      Minta

             Pad 1                         Ahh!
             Pad 2                       Hey You!
             Pad 3                        Oww!
             Pad 4                        Yeah!




                               69
Szkreccselés
A szkreccselés abból áll, hogy a motorizált lemeztányér
elforgatásával     hanghatást       hozunk    létre        egy
zeneszámban.


Helyezze a mutatóujját a motorizált lemeztányér tetejére,
és végezzen apró, gyors mozdulatokat jobbra és balra.


Ezt a szkreccselést többször is megismételheti, hogy
egy ritmust hozzon létre.




 − A szkreccselés vagy keverés előtt győződjön meg
   róla,   hogy    a   motorizált   lemeztányér       és    a
   bakelitlemez közé filcből készült alátétet helyezett.
 − Amikor a bakelitlemezt a motorizált lemeztányérra
   helyezi,   ne   erőltesse.    Ezzel   a   bakelitlemez
   közepének sérülését kockáztatja.




                            70
Szűrők
A    zeneszám    szűrőjének   beállítása     lehetővé   teszi
bizonyos frekvenciák csökkentését.


    − A magas frekvenciák csökkentéséhez (úgynevezett
      aluláteresztő szűrő vagy magasvágó szűrő): fordítsa
      a szűrő forgókapcsolót (FILTER) balra.
    − Az    alacsony      frekvenciák      csökkentéséhez
      (úgynevezett     felüláteresztő      szűrő        vagy
      alacsonyvágó     szűrő):    fordítsa       a      szűrő
      forgókapcsolót (FILTER) jobbra.




                            71
    6.   Többcsatornás hangkártya
A    DJControl   Inpulse   T7    beépített   többcsatornás
hangkártyát tartalmaz, amely lehetővé teszi, hogy a
mixet a közönség számára hangszórókon játssza le
(Master kimenet hangszórókhoz), és a következő,
készülő zeneszámot fejhallgatón hallgassa (fejhallgató
kimenet), és mikrofont és/vagy lineáris kimenettel ellátott
eszközt használjon hangforrásként.




                            72
Master kimenet hangszórókhoz (1-2
kimenet)
Az aktív hangszórókat a DJ kontroller hátulján található,
kettő közül az egyik hangszóró Master kimenethez kell
csatlakoztatni.




 Lehetőség van mindkét kimeneti formátum egyidejű
 használatára - például úgy, hogy egy kimeneti párt a
 PA rendszerhez, egy másik kimeneti párt pedig a
 monitorozó hangszórókhoz csatlakoztat.


                           73
Fejhallgató kimenet (3-4 kimenet)
A fejhallgatót a DJ kontroller elején található, kettő közül
az egyik fejhallgató kimenethez          kell csatlakoztatni.




Alapértelmezetten       a       termék      minden       egyes
csatlakoztatásakor a fejhallgató kimenete a 3-4-es
kimenethez van rendelve, hogy a piacon kapható összes
DJ szoftverrel működhessen - beleértve a DJUCED® -t
és a Serato DJ Lite-ot is.


Ha azonban a DJ kontroller fejhallgató kimenetét
szeretné    használni       arra,   hogy     például    iTunes
segítségével zenét hallgasson a számítógépén, akkor az
1-2 kimenetet a fejhallgató kimenetre kell irányítania.
Ehhez nyomja meg a MASTER VU mérő alatt található
gombot       .


                               74
Nem javasoljuk, hogy egyszerre két pár fejhallgatót
csatlakoztasson (azaz egyet a 3,5 mm-es mini-jack
kimeneti csatlakozóhoz, egyet pedig a 6,35 mm-es
jack kimeneti csatlakozóhoz). Ha a két fejhallgató nem
azonos    impedanciájú,    akkor    eltérő   kimeneti
hangerővel fognak rendelkezni.




                          75
Mikrofon bemenet
A   mikrofont   a   DJ   kontroller   hátulján   található
Mikrofonbemenetre        kell     csatlakoztatni.       A
mikrofonbemenet kiegyenlített.




                          76
Kiegyenlített    vagy     nem     kiegyenlített   mikrofon
csatlakoztatható. A kiegyenlített mikrofon tisztább,
erőteljesebb hangzást eredményez, kevesebb légzési
hatással. Ha a kiegyenlített mikrofon nem kiegyenlített
kábellel van csatlakoztatva, a mikrofonkábel csökkenti
a mikrofon hangminőségét.


                     Kiegyenlített kábel

           Tip (Teteje)
         Ring (Gyűrű)

       Sleeve (Hüvely)




                 Nem kiegyenlített kábel


           Tip (Teteje)


       Sleeve (Hüvely)




                             77
  7.       Kompatibilitás

USB Audio / USB MIDI
A DJ kontroller „Csak dugd össze & játssz” alapelven
működik, és illesztőprogramok nélkül bármely PC-n vagy
Mac-en használható, mivel megfelel az USB Audio és
USB MIDI szabványoknak.



ASIO és Windows® vezérlőpult
Ha a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollert a Serato DJ Lite-al
szeretné        használni,         telepítse    az        ASIO
illesztőprogramokat. Az illesztőprogramok itt érhetők el:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/.


Ha a DJUCED-ot használja, letöltheti az ASIO
illesztőprogramokat     is,   hogy       kihasználhassa     az
alacsonyabb késleltetés előnyeit PC-én.


Az       ASIO    illesztőprogramok        egy   vezérlőpultot
tartalmaznak, amely a számítógép tálcáján vagy a
C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console
Series\cpl2\ könyvtárban érhető el. Ezen a panelen
állíthatja be a különböző ASIO beállításokat, beleértve a
puffer méreteket és a késleltetést.


                              78
Az ASIO beállításokhoz:
  − Állítsa az ASIO puffer méretet 4 vagy 8 ms-re.
  − Indítsa el a szoftvert (pl.: DJUCED®) és válassza ki
       a       DJControl     Inpulse T7     ASIO        (ASIO)
       illesztőprogramot:




Amint      a     szoftver   elkezdi   használni    az    ASIO
illesztőprogramot, az ASIO beállítások többé nem
módosíthatók a vezérlőpulton. Ez teljesen normális, és
azt jelzi, hogy az ASIO illesztőprogram használatban
van.




                               79
Használja a szoftvert, és figyelje meg, hogy van-e
bármilyen      hanghiba     (kattogás,   pukkanás)     vagy
késleltetési probléma: ha ezek közül bármelyik hiba
felmerül, akkor a puffer méretét ennek megfelelően kell
beállítania.


Zárja be a szoftvert, és módosítsa az ASIO pufferét
alkalmanként egy értékkel:
  − Csökkentse      a     puffer   méretét   a   késleltetés
     csökkentése érdekében.
  − Növelje a puffer méretét, ha problémát észlel a
     hangban.


Ezt az eljárást addig kell megismételnie, amíg meg nem
találja a rendszere számára optimális pufferméretet.


Az illesztőprogramok itt érhetőek el:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/




                              80
Firmware frissítés
A DJ kontroller automatikus firmware frissítési móddal
rendelkezik.   Ehhez              telepíteni      kell   a    Hercules
illesztőprogramokat,         és        követni   kell    a   képernyőn
megjelenő      utasításokat.                A    firmware      frissítés
automatikusan megtörténik.


Az illesztőprogramok itt érhetőek el:
https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul
set7/


A    vezérlőpulton           is        hozzáférhet       ezekhez     az
információkhoz,         és         a        számítógépre      telepített
illesztőprogram verziókat is megjelenítheti az ABOUT
(LEÍRÁS) fülön. Keresse elő ezeket az információkat, ha
kapcsolatba      kell        lépnie         a    Hercules     technikai
támogatásával.




                                       81
A       DJ         kontroller          tesztelése         a
vezérlőpulton
A DJControl Inpulse T7 vezérlőpult ABOUT (LEÍRÁS)
részében tesztelheti a DJ kontroller hangzását, MIDI
vezérlőit     és   világítását,    valamint   a   motorizált
lemeztányérokat.


A vezérlőpultot a következő úton érheti el: C:\Program
Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2\.



    1. Hang teszt

Ha tesztelni szeretné, hogy a DJControl Inpulse T7
kontroller audiointerfésze hangot ad-e ki (anélkül, hogy
ehhez DJ szoftvert használna), kattintson a hangszóró
ikonra. Az ikon a teszt során zöldre vált, és a program
hangot játszik le a hangszórók és fejhallgatók Master
kimenetein.




                              82
  2. MIDI vezérlők teszt

Annak teszteléséhez, hogy a DJControl Inpulse T7
kontroller MIDI vezérlői működnek-e (anélkül, hogy
ehhez DJ szoftvert használna), próbálja meg használni
azokat a gombokat vagy egyéb vezérlőket, amelyeket ki
szeretne próbálni. Ha a DIN csatlakozó ikonja zöldre
vált, ez azt jelenti, hogy a MIDI parancs fogadásra kerül,
és a gomb vagy más vezérlő megfelelően működik.




                           83
  3. Világítás teszt

A DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller LED-ek működésének
teszteléséhez    (a   DJ   szoftver   használata   nélkül)
kattintson az izzó ikonra, hogy a kontroller LED-jei
kigyulladjanak. A teszt során az ikon zöldre vált, és a
kontroller LED-jei világítanak.




A DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller összes LED-jét is fel
tudja kapcsolni a két deck IN és OUT gombjának
egyidejű megnyomásával.




                            84
    4. Motorizált lemeztányér teszt

A      DJControl    Inpulse T7     vezérlő    motorizált
lemeztányérok működésének teszteléséhez (anélkül,
hogy ehhez DJ szoftvert használna) kattintson a tányér 1
vagy 2 ikonjára. A teszt során a megfelelő tányér és a
DIN csatlakozó ikonjai zöldre váltanak, és a motorizált
lemeztányér mozog (azaz forog) a kontrolleren.


Az 1-es motorizált lemeztányér tesztje:




A 2-es motorizált lemeztányér tesztje:




                           85
  8.    Demó mód
Ez a mód akkor érhető el, ha a DJ kontrollert egy
tápegységhez és egy USB tápegységhez csatlakoztatja
számítógép   nélkül,    és   különösen     az    üzletekben
használatos. Ebben az esetben a DJ kontroller nem
üzemképes, hanem demó módban van: a vezérlő
különböző     fényeit        megvilágító        demósorozat
folyamatosan ismétlődik.




                             86
  9.       GYIK

 1.        A fejhallgatóm nem szól.
Győződjön meg róla, hogy a fejhallgatót a DJ kontroller
elejéhez    csatlakoztatta,    mivel   a   DJ   kontroller
többcsatornás hangkártyával van felszerelve, amely a
DJUCED® és Serato DJ Lite működéséhez szükséges
beállításokat tartalmazza.
Alapértelmezetten a szoftver első indításakor a két
ellenőrző gomb be van kapcsolva. Ezután kiválaszthatja
bármelyik decket, amelyet a fejhallgatón keresztül
szeretne hallgatni, vagy nyomja meg a            gombot,
amit a MASTER VU mérő alatt talál és halgassa meg a
mix eredményét.




                              87
  2.      A fejhallgatóm hangja torz vagy
    túl halk.
Győződjön       meg    róla,   hogy   a   fejhallgatója     TRS
csatlakozóval rendelkezik (normál fejhallgató) és nem
TRRS csatlakozóval (fejhallgató + mikrofon).


        Tip (Teteje)                         Tip (Teteje)
       Ring (Gyűrű)                          Ring (Gyűrű)
                                             Ring (Gyűrű)
   Sleeve (Hüvely)
                                             Sleeve (Hüvely)




A TRRS csatlakozók nem kompatibilisek a DJControl
Inpulse T7 kontrollerrel.




                               88
  3.     Nem szólnak a hangszóróim.
Győződjön meg róla, hogy a hangszórókat a DJ
kontroller     hátulján   található   RCA   vagy   XLR
csatlakozókhoz csatlakoztatta, mivel a DJ kontroller
többcsatornás hangkártyával van felszerelve, amely a
DJUCED® és a Serato DJ Lite működéséhez szükséges
beállításokat tartalmazza.


Annak tesztelésére (DJ szoftver használata nélkül), hogy
a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller audiointerfésze hangot
ad-e ki, jelenítse meg a DJ kontroller vezérlőpultját.
Kattintson az ABOUT (LEÍRÁS) fülre, majd kattintson a
hangszóró ikonra. Az ikon zöldre vált, ha hang kerül
lejátszásra.




                             89
 4.       Nem          szól      a       laptopom
      hangszórója.
A DJ kontroller egy előre beállított többcsatornás
hangkártyával rendelkezik. Ha szeretné a laptopba
épített hangszórót használni:
  − DJUCED®-ban menjen a beállításokhoz és jelölje
      be a SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS
      (A FŐJELET A SZÁMÍTÓGÉP HANGSZÓRÓIRA
      KÜLDI) opciót.




  − Serato DJ Lite-ban, menjen a beállításokhoz, nyissa
      meg az Audio (Hang) fület és jelölje be a Use
      Laptop Speakers (Laptop Hangszórók Használata)
      opciót.




                           90
 5.        Nem szól sem a fejhallgatóm,
      sem a laptopom hangszórója.
Alapértelmezetten       a    hang     a   hangszórók    Master
kimenetéről és a fejhallgató kimenetéről érkezik. Ezért
normális, hogy a laptopból nem jön ki hang.


Ha     a   laptopjába       épített   hangszórókat     szeretné
használni:
  − DJUCED®-ban lépjen be a beállításokba, és jelölje
      be a SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS
      (A   FŐ    JELET         KÜLDJE      A   SZÁMÍTÓGÉP
      HANGSZÓRÓRA) opciót. A fejhallgatót a DJControl
      Inpulse T7 kontrollerhez kell csatlakoztatnia.




                                91
  − Serato DJ Lite-ban, a beállításokhoz, nyissa meg az
    Audio (Hang) fület, és jelölje be a Use Laptop
    Speakers (Laptop Hangszórók Használata) opciót.
    A fejhallgatót a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontrollerhez
    kell csatlakoztatnia.




Annak tesztelésére (DJ szoftver használata nélkül), hogy
a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller audiointerfésze hangot
produkál-e, megjelenítheti a DJ kontroller vezérlőpultját.
Kattintson az ABOUT (LEÍRÁS) fülre, majd kattintson a
hangszóró ikonra. Az ikon zöldre vált, ha hangot ad le.




                            92
 6.       Hangminőségi                     problémát
      észlelek a Windows® rendszerrel

A lejátszott zeneszám hangereje túl alacsony

A DJ szoftver fő hangereje független a DJ kontroller
hangerőszabályzóitól. Ezért amíg a DJ szoftver fő
hangereje alacsony, addig a Master kimenet hangereje
is alacsony lesz.

Ellenőrizze a DJ szoftver hangerejét és növelje meg, ha
szükséges.


  − DJUCED-ban használja a hangerő gombot, az
      ablak jobb felső részén található sávban.




  − Serato DJ Lite-ban, használja a hangerő gombot, az
      ablak jobb felső részén található sávban.




                            93
A fejhallgatóm hangereje túl alacsony

Serato DJ Lite-ban, lépjen be a beállításokba, nyissa
meg az Audio (Hang) fület és vegye ki a Use Laptop
Speakers (Laptop Hangszórók használata) kijelölését.




                          94
Ha   szükséges    a    Use   Laptop   Speakers      (Laptop
Hangszórók Használata) kijelölést megtartani (vagyis
kiválasztva), akkor a számítógép beépített hangkártyáját
állítsa be "Számítógép hangszóró"-nak:
  1. Zárja be a Serato DJ Lite szoftvert.
  2. Lépjen be a Windows beállításokba majd válassza
     ki a System-et (Rendszer) és a Sound-ot (Hang).
  3. Az Output (Kimenet) alatt, válassza ki a számítógép
     beépített hangkártyáját. A DJ kontrollerét már nem
     szabad kimenetként beállítani.




Előfordulhat,   hogy   a   Windows®    a     DJ   kontrollert
Windows® hangkártyájaként állította be. Ha ezt a
beállítást megtartja, akkor a Use Laptop Speakers
(Laptop Hangszórók Használata) beállítással a DJ
kontroller 4 csatornás kimenetén (Master kimenet +
fejhallgató) a Master kimenet lejátszható.




                             95
A hang nem tiszta

DJUCED®-ban:
Javasoljuk,    hogy    használjon    ASIO   hangeszközt.
WASAPI eszközzel a hangminőség általában jó. A
késleltetés azonban megnövekedhet, és a hang nem
biztos, hogy tiszta lesz.


Lépjen be a beállításokba, kattintson az Audio (Hang)
fülre, és válassza ki a DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO
(ASIO) Audio device-ként (Hangeszköz).




Serato DJ Lite-ban:
Lépjen be a beállításokba, nyissa meg az Audio (Hang)
fület és vegye ki a Use Laptop Speakers (Laptop
Hangszórók Használata) kijelölést.




                            96
  7.     Nem       tudom        csatlakoztatni           a
      multimédiás           hangszóróimat                a
      DJControl Inpulse T7-hez.
Ha a hangszórók csatlakozói eltérnek a DJControl
Inpulse T7 csatlakozóitól, használhat egy kettős RCA
3,5    mm-es   mini-jack   adaptert   (nem   tartozék)   a
multimédiás hangszórók csatlakoztatásra, egy kettős
XLR 6,35 mm-es jack adaptert (nem tartozék) a PA
hangszórók csatlakoztatásra, vagy bármilyen más, a
hangszóróknak megfelelő adapter formátumot.
A MASTER VU mérő alatt található gomb
megnyomásával a hangszórókat a fejhallgató kimenetre
is csatlakoztathatja, és az 1-2. kimenetet a 3-4.
kimenetre irányíthatja.



  8.     A DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller
      kompatibilis iPad-el vagy iPhone-al?
Nem, a DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller nem kompatibilis
iPad-el vagy iPhone-nal. Csak PC-vel vagy Mac
számítógépekkel működik.




                           97
  9.       Hogyant      tudom       a     DJControl
    Inpulse T7 kontrollert egy USB-C
    porthoz, vagy egy Thunderbolt 3
    porthoz csatlakoztatni?
A DJControl Inpulse T7 kontroller háromféleképpen
csatlakoztatható USB-C porthoz vagy Thunderbolt 3
porthoz:
  − Egy adapter (USB-C [dugós] vagy Thunderbolt 3 –
    USB-A [aljzat]) használatával a számítógép és a DJ
    kontroller között. Kérjük, vegye figyelembe, hogy
    egyes olcsó adapterek nem fognak megfelelően
    működni, mivel elvágják a tápellátás egy részét.
  − Egy     dokkoló   (USB-C     vagy    Thunderbolt 3)
    használatával a számítógép és a DJ vezérlő között.
    Győződjön meg róla, hogy a dokkoló rendelkezik
    külön tápegységgel, mivel a csak az USB-C vagy
    Thunderbolt 3 porton keresztül táplált dokkoló nem
    biztos, hogy elegendő energiával rendelkezik.
  − A mellékelt USB kábelt USB-C vagy Thunderbolt 3
    és USB-B 2.0 közötti kábelre cserélve.




                          98
 TECHNIKAI TÁMOGATÁS
https://support.hercules.com




            99
Védjegyek
Az Intel® és az Intel Core™ az Intel Corporation védjegyei vagy
bejegyzett védjegyei.
A Microsoft® Windows® 10/11 a Microsoft Corporation bejegyzett
védjegye vagy védjegye az Egyesült Államokban és/vagy egyéb
országokban.
A Mac® és a macOS® az Apple Inc. védjegyei, az Egyesült Államokban
és egyéb országokban bejegyzett.
A Serato, a Serato DJ Lite és a Serato DJ Pro a Serato Audio Research
Limited bejegyzett védjegyei.
A DJUCED márka és a DJUCED grafikai elemek a Guillemot
Corporation tulajdonai.
Az ASIO a Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH védjegye.
Minden a dokumentumban szereplő egyéb védjegy és márkanév
igazolva van és az adott tulajdonos tulajdonában áll. A képek nem
kötelező érvényűek. A tartalom, a formatervezés és egyéb specifikációk
bármikor módosíthatók további értesítés nélkül és országonként
eltérhetnek.




                                 100
Szerzői jog
A Guillemot Corporation S.A. előzetes írásbeli engedélye nélkül ez az
útmutató semmilyen formában vagy bármilyen módon, elektronikus,
mechanikus, mágneses, kézi, fénymásolás, rögzítés vagy más módon
nem reprodukálható, nem foglalható össze, nem továbbítható, nem
írható át, nem tárolható keresőrendszerben vagy nem fordítható le
semmilyen nyelvre vagy számítógépes nyelvre.




                                101
DJUCED®                 és        Serato       DJ     Lite
Végfelhasználói Licenc Szerződés
Kérjük, figyelmesen olvassa el a DJUCED® és a Serato DJ Lite
telepítése során megjelenő Licencszerződést.




                                102
‫מדריך למשתמש‬
                             ‫תוכן העניינים‬
‫תכולת האריזה ‪6 ................................................‬‬                ‫‪.1‬‬

‫‪6 ....................................... DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

‫‪8 ........ DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition‬‬

‫מפרט טכני ‪10 ...................................................‬‬               ‫‪.2‬‬

‫תכונות ‪13 ...........................................................‬‬          ‫‪.3‬‬

‫סקירה כללית ‪13 .......................................................‬‬

‫ֶדקים ‪14 ...................................................................‬‬

‫מיקסינג‪32 ...............................................................‬‬

‫מחברים ‪43 ..............................................................‬‬

‫התקנה ‪46 ...........................................................‬‬           ‫‪.4‬‬

‫חיבורים ‪46 ...............................................................‬‬

‫הורדת התוכנה ‪49 ....................................................‬‬

‫להוסיף חיים למיקס ‪54 ......................................‬‬                    ‫‪.5‬‬

‫מצבים ופדים ‪54 .......................................................‬‬

‫סקראצ'ינג ‪70 ...........................................................‬‬

‫פילטרים ‪71 ..............................................................‬‬
‫כרטיס קול רב‪-‬ערוצי ‪72 .....................................‬‬              ‫‪.6‬‬

‫יציאת ‪ Master‬לרמקולים (יציאה ‪73 ................... )2-1‬‬

‫יציאת אוזניות (יציאה ‪74 .................................... )4-3‬‬

‫כניסת מיקרופון ‪76 ....................................................‬‬

‫תאימות ‪78 .......................................................‬‬        ‫‪.7‬‬

‫‪78 ..................................... USB MIDI/USB Audio‬‬

‫‪ ASIO‬ולוח הבקרה של ®‪78 ..................... Windows‬‬

‫עדכון קושחה ‪81 .......................................................‬‬

‫בדיקת קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי בלוח הבקרה‪82 ..................‬‬

‫מצב הדגמה ‪86 ..................................................‬‬          ‫‪.8‬‬

‫שאלות נפוצות ‪87 ...............................................‬‬          ‫‪.9‬‬
‫‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬הוא קונטרולר בעל יכולות‬
‫מקיפות שנועד לעזור לכם ללמוד את אמנות הפטיפון הודות‬
‫לשתי פלטות ממונעות‪ ,‬הדרכות וידאו ושילוב של התוכנות‬
                              ‫‪ DJUCED‬ו‪.Serato DJ Lite-‬‬




‫‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬כולל רישיון עבור ‪Serato‬‬
                ‫‪ ,DJ Lite‬ולא רישיון עבור ‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬
     ‫ניתן להשתמש ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬ללא כל מגבלת זמן‪.‬‬
‫אם תתקינו את ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬במקום את ‪Serato DJ‬‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Pro ,Lite‬תפעל עם ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫למשך תקופת הניסיון‪ .‬בסוף תקופת הניסיון‪ ,‬אם רוצים‬
‫להמשיך להשתמש ב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬יש לקנות רישיון‬
                                        ‫‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬
                          ‫‪4‬‬
‫לרשותכם מגוון הדרכות בווידאו‪ ,‬שיעזרו לכם ללמוד‬
‫למקסס עם הקונטרולר ‪:Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
               ‫‪( Hercules DJ Academy −‬באנגלית)‪:‬‬
       ‫‪.‬‬    ‫‪ o‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬בהקלקה על הסמל‬
            ‫‪ o‬באתר האינטרנט של ‪.DJUCED‬‬
‫ב‪YouTube-‬‬    ‫‪Hercules‬‬        ‫‪Audio‬‬   ‫של‬    ‫‪ −‬בערוץ‬
                                      ‫(באנגלית)‪.‬‬
‫‪ ,The DJ Coach −‬עם קורסים שמעביר ‪ DJ HAPA‬ב‪-‬‬
                        ‫‪( Serato DJ Lite‬באנגלית)‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪5‬‬
                   ‫תכולת האריזה‬         ‫‪.1‬‬

              ‫‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

         ‫‪Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 −‬‬
      ‫‪ −‬שני תקליטי ויניל (‪ 7‬אינץ'‪ 17.8/‬ס"מ)‬
‫‪ −‬שני משטחי החלקה (סליפמטים) עשויי לבד‬
                          ‫‪ −‬כבל ‪ USB‬קלוע‬
                        ‫‪ −‬כבל חשמל נתיק‬
                             ‫‪ −‬מתאם מתח‬
                          ‫‪ −‬מדריך הוראות‬
                      ‫‪ −‬עלון בנושא אחריות‬




               ‫‪6‬‬
‫ניתן להסיר את סרטי ההגנה שמכסים את מדי ה‪VU-‬‬
‫בקונטרולר ‪ .Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬ניתן גם‬
‫להשאיר את סרטי ההגנה במקומם‪ ,‬משום שהם לא‬
                   ‫משפיעים על השימוש במדי ה‪.VU-‬‬




                       ‫‪7‬‬
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                8
   ‫‪Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition −‬‬

         ‫‪ −‬שני תקליטי ויניל (‪ 7‬אינץ' ‪ 17.8 /‬ס"מ)‬
  ‫‪ −‬שני משטחי החלקה (סליפמטים) עשויי לבד‬
‫‪ −‬שני משטחי החלקה (סליפמטים) דקים עשויי‬
                                             ‫לבד‬
                                 ‫‪ −‬כבל ‪ USB‬קלוע‬
                               ‫‪ −‬כבל חשמל נתיק‬
                                    ‫‪ −‬מתאם מתח‬
                                     ‫‪ −‬תיק נשיאה‬
                                 ‫‪ −‬מדריך הוראות‬
                             ‫‪ −‬עלון בנושא אחריות‬




‫ניתן להסיר את סרטי ההגנה שמכסים את מדי ה‪ VU-‬בקונטרולר‬
‫‪ .Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition‬ניתן‬
‫גם להשאיר את סרטי ההגנה במקומם‪ ,‬משום שהם לא‬
                        ‫משפיעים על השימוש במדי ה‪.VU-‬‬




                         ‫‪9‬‬
                               ‫מפרט טכני‬         ‫‪.2‬‬
                                      ‫דרישות מערכת‪:‬‬
                                     ‫‪:DJUCED −‬‬
      ‫‪https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/‬‬
                                         ‫(באנגלית)‬
                                  ‫‪:Serato DJ Lite −‬‬
‫‪https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq‬‬
      ‫‪( uirements#system-requirements‬באנגלית)‬


                                          ‫יציאות שמע‪:‬‬
                    ‫‪ o‬רזולוציה = ‪ 24‬סיביות‬
                  ‫‪ o‬קצב דגימה = ‪kHz 44.1‬‬


              ‫יציאות ‪ Master‬לרמקולים (יציאה ‪ )2-1‬דרך‪:‬‬
                                ‫‪ −‬שני מחברי ‪:RCA‬‬
       ‫‪ o‬הספק יציאה מרבי = ‪7 dBU @ 1 kΩ‬‬
                       ‫‪ −‬שני מחברי ‪( XLR‬מאוזנים)‪:‬‬
      ‫‪ o‬הספק יציאה מרבי = ‪13 dBU @ 1 kΩ‬‬


‫יציאת אוזניות (יציאה ‪ )4-3‬דרך מחבר אחד של מיני‪-‬שקע‬
  ‫סטריאו ‪ 3.5‬מ"מ ומחבר אחד של שקע סטריאו ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ‪:‬‬
‫‪ o‬הספק יציאה מרבי = ‪ 5 dBU‬עבור ‪32 Ω‬‬
                               ‫@ ‪1 kHz‬‬


                        ‫‪10‬‬
‫כניסת מיקרופון דרך מחבר אחד של שקע ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ (מאוזן)‬




                      ‫שנאי‬
 ‫‪ −‬יש להשתמש אך ורק בשנאי שצוין במדריך למשתמש‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬יש להשתמש בשנאי אך ורק ברשת בעלת מתח ותדר‬
‫המתאימים לנתונים שמצוינים בלוחית הנתונים של‬
                                         ‫השנאי‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪11‬‬
          ‫מידע לגבי השנאי החשמלי‬
‫יחידה‬              ‫ערך‬             ‫המידע שפורסם‬
        ‫‪GUILLEMOT CORPORATION‬‬      ‫השם או הסימן‬
                 ‫‪S.A.‬‬               ‫המסחרי של‬
           ‫‪414 196 758 R.C.S.‬‬          ‫היצרן‬
                 ‫‪Vannes‬‬             ‫מספר העסק‬
          ‫‪2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc‬‬        ‫כתובת‬
             ‫‪56910 Carentoir‬‬
                  ‫צרפת‬
             ‫‪A481-1852590D‬‬           ‫מזהה דגם‬
 ‫‪V‬‬              ‫‪240-100‬‬             ‫מתח כניסה‬
‫‪Hz‬‬                ‫‪60-50‬‬            ‫תדר כניסה ‪AC‬‬
‫‪V DC‬‬              ‫‪18.5‬‬               ‫מתח יציאה‬
 ‫‪A‬‬                 ‫‪2.6‬‬               ‫זרם יציאה‬
 ‫‪W‬‬                ‫‪47.9‬‬              ‫הספק יציאה‬
 ‫‪%‬‬                ‫‪87.8‬‬              ‫יעילות פעילה‬
                                      ‫ממוצעת‬
 ‫‪%‬‬                ‫‪87.8‬‬              ‫יעילות בעומס‬
                                    ‫נמוך (‪)%10‬‬
 ‫‪W‬‬                ‫‪0.10‬‬             ‫צריכת מתח ללא‬
                                        ‫עומס‬




                         ‫‪12‬‬
                                     ‫תכונות‬      ‫‪.3‬‬

                                         ‫סקירה כללית‬




                                  ‫‪ .1‬פלטה ממונעת‬
        ‫‪ .2‬כפתורי טרנספורט (‪)Shift ,Sync ,Cue ,Play‬‬
                                ‫‪ .3‬פקדי לופ (‪)Loop‬‬
‫‪ .4‬פקדי בחירת רצועה (‪)Assist./Prep. ,Load ,Browser‬‬
                        ‫‪ .5‬טמפו פיידר (‪)Pitch Fader‬‬
                                    ‫‪ .6‬פדים ומצבים‬
                                   ‫‪ .7‬מצבי השמעה‬
‫‪ .8‬ניטור‪ ,‬עוצמות קול (‪ ,Master‬אוזניות ומיקרופון) ו‪-‬‬
                               ‫‪Beatmatch Guide‬‬
                  ‫‪ .9‬אזור מיקסינג (‪)Filter ,EQ ,Gain‬‬
       ‫‪ .10‬מיקסר (קרוס‪-‬פיידר‪ ,‬פיידרים של עוצמת קול)‬
                                        ‫‪ .11‬אפקטים‬




                         ‫‪13‬‬
                                              ‫דֶ קים‬

                                   ‫‪ .1‬פלטה ממונעת‬




‫משטח החלקה עשוי לבד‪ :‬מונח בין הפלטה הממונעת לבין‬
‫תקליט הוויניל‪ .‬הוא מגן על תקליט הוויניל מפני חיכוך‬
             ‫בפלטה‪ ,‬ומפחית רעידות בעת ניגון התקליט‪.‬‬




 ‫יש להקפיד להניח את משטח ההחלקה עשוי הלבד על‬
          ‫הפלטה הממונעת לפני התקנת תקליט הוויניל‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪14‬‬
‫תקליט ויניל‪ :‬מאפשר לך לעשות סקראץ'‪ ,‬להאיץ או להאט‬
                            ‫את הנגינה ולזוז בתוך הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫הקו בתווית של תקליט הוויניל משמש כנקודת התייחסות‬
                             ‫(כלומר סמן) למיקס ולסקראץ'‪.‬‬


                ‫הפעולה שתבוצע תלויה בשני קריטריונים‪:‬‬
                            ‫‪ −‬רצועה מתנגנת או מושהית;‬
‫‪ −‬הנקודה שבה נוגעים בתקליט הוויניל (חלק עליון (‪)top‬‬
                                    ‫או טבעת (‪.))ring‬‬


                    ‫חלק‬
                    ‫עליון‬


‫טבעת‬




                            ‫‪15‬‬
‫הפעולות של תקליטי הוויניל עם ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬ועם ‪Serato‬‬
                                              ‫‪:DJ Pro‬‬


  ‫כפתור ‪SHIFT‬‬       ‫פלטה ממונעת‬          ‫נגן‪/‬השהה‬
        ‫‪-‬‬              ‫חלק עליון‬            ‫נגן‬
                       ‫סקראצ'ינג‬
  ‫לחיצה ממושכת‬      ‫חלק עליון‪/‬טבעת‬          ‫נגן‬
                ‫מעבר מהיר בתוך הרצועה‬
        ‫‪-‬‬               ‫טבעת‬                ‫נגן‬
               ‫האצה או האטה של הנגינה‬
        ‫‪-‬‬           ‫חלק עליון‪/‬טבעת‬        ‫השהה‬
                ‫מעבר איטי בתוך הרצועה‬
  ‫לחיצה ממושכת‬      ‫חלק עליון‪/‬טבעת‬        ‫השהה‬
                ‫מעבר מהיר בתוך הרצועה‬




                         ‫‪16‬‬
               ‫פעולות של תקליטי ויניל עם ‪:DJUCED‬‬


‫כפתור ‪SHIFT‬‬       ‫פלטה ממונעת‬         ‫נגן‪/‬השהה‬
     ‫‪-‬‬              ‫חלק עליון‬           ‫נגן‬
                    ‫סקראצ'ינג‬
‫לחיצה ממושכת‬     ‫חלק עליון‪/‬טבעת‬         ‫נגן‬
           ‫מעבר מהיר בתוך הרצועה‬
     ‫‪-‬‬               ‫טבעת‬               ‫נגן‬
          ‫האצה או האטה של הנגינה‬
     ‫‪-‬‬               ‫טבעת‬              ‫השהה‬
              ‫מעבר איטי בתוך הרצועה‬




                      ‫‪17‬‬
‫פלטה ממונעת‪ :‬מניעה את תקליט הוויניל השולט בהשמעה‬
‫של הרצועה ובמהירות הרצועה בהתאם לקצב שנקבע עם‬
                                          ‫הפיידר טמפו‪.‬‬


‫ההנחיות‬   ‫מופעלת‪,‬‬   ‫‪Beatmatch‬‬     ‫‪Guide‬‬    ‫כשהפונקציה‬
‫הוויזואליות של ‪ BEAT ALIGN‬מציינות את הכיוון שבו צריך‬
‫לסובב את הטבעת (כלומר‪ ,‬השוליים) של הפלטה הממונעת‬
‫כדי להתאים את רשתות הפעימות של שתי הרצועות‪ .‬כששני‬
‫החיצים האדומים כבויים‪ ,‬יש התאמה מלאה בין רשתות‬
                                              ‫הפעימות‪.‬‬


‫למידע נוסף על פונקציית ‪ ,Beatmatch Guide‬קראו את‬
                          ‫החלק של ‪.Beatmatch Guide‬‬




               ‫לא ניתן להשבית את המנוע של הפלטות‪.‬‬




 ‫כשהפלטה הממונעת מסתובבת‪ ,‬הימנעו מלעצור אותה בעזרת‬
          ‫כף היד לזמן ממושך‪ ,‬כדי לא להזיק למערכת ההינע‪.‬‬
 ‫כאשר מניחים את תקליט הוויניל על הפלטה הממונעת‪ ,‬אין‬
 ‫לעשות זאת בכוח‪ .‬הנחתו בכוח עלולה לפגוע במרכז תקליט‬
                                                ‫הוויניל‪.‬‬


                         ‫‪18‬‬
                                ‫‪ .2‬כפתורי טרנספורט‬




                        ‫‪ :SHIFT‬פקד משולב‪ .‬לדוגמה‪:‬‬
‫‪ :)KEYLOCK( RANGE + SHIFT −‬נועל את המפתח‬
                            ‫המוזיקלי של הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫‪ :IN + SHIFT −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED®-‬מחלק לשניים את גודל‬
                                    ‫הלופ הפעיל‪.‬‬


‫‪ :SYNC‬מפעיל או משבית סנכרון אוטומטי של ערכי ‪BPM‬‬
                    ‫(פעימות לדקה) של שתי הרצועות‪.‬‬
                                ‫‪:SYNC + SHIFT −‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ :DJUCED-‬הופך את הדק הנוכחי לדק הסנכרון‬
                      ‫הראשי (‪.)Master Sync‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ :Serato DJ Lite-‬משבית את הסנכרון בדק‬
                                    ‫הנוכחי‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪19‬‬
‫‪ :CUE‬מוסיף נקודת ‪ Cue‬לרצועה כדי לזהות רגע ספציפי‪ ,‬או‬
‫מעביר את נקודת ההפעלה של הדק אל המיקום של נקודת‬
                                               ‫ה‪.Cue-‬‬
‫‪ −‬רצועה מושהית‪ :‬מוסיף נקודת ‪ Cue‬היכן שהרצועה‬
                                         ‫נעצרה‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬רצועה מתנגנת‪ :‬עוצר את נגינת הרצועה‪ ,‬ומעביר את‬
            ‫נקודת ההפעלה של הדק לנקודת ה‪.Cue-‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬אם לא זוהתה נקודת ‪ ,Cue‬לחיצה‬
‫על ‪ CUE‬תעצור את הנגינה‪ ,‬ותשים נקודת ‪Cue‬‬
            ‫במיקום הנוכחי של נקודת ההפעלה‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬אם לא זוהתה נקודת ‪,Cue‬‬
‫לחיצה על ‪ CUE‬תעצור את הנגינה‪ ,‬ותשים נקודת‬
                        ‫‪ Cue‬בתחילת הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫‪ :PLAY + CUE −‬מעביר את נקודת ההפעלה לנקודת ה‪-‬‬
            ‫‪ ,Cue‬ומנגן את הרצועה מאותה הנקודה‪.‬‬
                                 ‫‪:CUE + SHIFT −‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ :DJUCED-‬מעביר את נקודת ההפעלה לתחילת‬
                    ‫הרצועה‪ ,‬ועוצר את הנגינה‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬ב‪ :Serato DJ Lite-‬מעביר את נקודת ההפעלה‬
           ‫לתחילת הרצועה‪ ,‬ומתחיל את הנגינה‪.‬‬


                 ‫נגן‪/‬השהה‪ :‬מנגן או משהה את הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫‪ :PLAY + SHIFT −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬מזיז את נקודת‬
‫ההפעלה לנקודת ה‪ ,Cue-‬ומשמיע את הרצועה מסמן‬
                                               ‫זה‪.‬‬
                        ‫‪20‬‬
                                       ‫‪ .3‬פקדי ‪Loop‬‬




                                  ‫מקודד ‪:AUTOLOOP‬‬
‫‪ −‬לחיצה על המקודד‪ :‬מפעילה או משביתה את נגינת‬
                                            ‫הלופ‪.‬‬
              ‫‪ −‬סיבוב המקודד‪ :‬מתאים את אורך הלופ‪.‬‬


‫‪ :OUT/IN‬מפעיל לופ מסוים על‪-‬ידי בחירה של נקודת הכניסה‬
                             ‫(‪ )IN‬ונקודת היציאה (‪.)OUT‬‬
                                 ‫כשהלופ פעיל (מופעל)‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬ניתן ללחוץ על ‪( IN‬הכפתור מהבהב) ולסובב את‬
         ‫הפלטה הממונעת‪ ,‬כדי לעבור לתחילת הלופ‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ניתן ללחוץ על ‪( OUT‬הכפתור מהבהב) ולסובב את‬
            ‫הפלטה הממונעת‪ ,‬כדי לעבור לסוף הלופ‪.‬‬
    ‫כדי לצאת מהלופ‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על המקודד ‪.AUTOLOOP‬‬
                                         ‫ב‪:DJUCED®-‬‬
    ‫‪ :IN + SHIFT −‬מחלק לשניים את גודל הלופ הפעיל‪.‬‬

  ‫‪ :OUT + SHIFT −‬מכפיל בשניים את גודל הלופ הפעיל‪.‬‬
  ‫‪ −‬לחיצה ארוכה על ‪ :IN‬מפעילה לופ של ארבע פעימות‪.‬‬



                        ‫‪21‬‬
                                 ‫‪ .4‬פקדי בחירת רצועה‬




‫מקודד ‪ :*BROWSER‬מאפשר לעיין בספריית המוזיקה‬
‫וברשימת הרצועות על‪-‬ידי סיבוב הכפתור הסיבובי שמאלה‬
                             ‫(למעלה) או ימינה (למטה)‪.‬‬
‫כדי לבחור תיקיות ולטעון את הרצועה הנבחרת בדק הרצוי‪,‬‬
                                 ‫יש ללחוץ על המקודד‪.‬‬


                                       ‫טבעת מוארת‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מראה את רמת האנרגיה של הרצועה‬
                         ‫הראשית מבחינת הטמפו‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬מראה את הקצב‪ .‬האור מהבהב לפי‬
                                    ‫קצב הרצועה‪:‬‬
        ‫‪ o‬אדום‪ :‬מציין את הפעימה הראשונה‪.‬‬
    ‫‪ o‬כחול‪ :‬מציין את שלושת הפעימות הבאות‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪22‬‬
                                   ‫‪:*PREP./ASSIST.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מראה את הלוח שמציע את הרצועות‬
               ‫הבאות שהכי מתאימות למיקס שלך‪.‬‬
‫כדי לנוע ברשימת הרצועות המוצעות‪ ,‬יש לסובב את‬
                            ‫המקודד ‪.BROWSER‬‬
‫כדי לבחור רצועה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על המקודד ‪.BROWSER‬‬
      ‫יש להשהות את הרצועה שכבר טעונה בדק זה‪.‬‬
‫ניתן ללחוץ על ‪ PREP./ASSIST.‬ולסובב את הכפתור‬
‫הסיבובי כדי לכוונן את רמת האנרגיה של הרצועות‬
                                       ‫המוצעות‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬מוסיף את הרצועה המתנגנת‬
                ‫הנוכחית לרשימה ‪( Prepare‬הכנה)‪.‬‬
‫‪ :PREP./ASSIST. + SHIFT‬פותח את הלוח ‪Prepare‬‬

                                        ‫(הכנה)‪.‬‬


‫‪ :*BACK‬מאפשר לך לנוע במבנה העץ ב‪ DJUCED-‬וב‪-‬‬
                                      ‫‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬יש ללחוץ על ‪ SHIFT‬ו‪ BACK-‬כדי לחזור‬
                                ‫לעמודה 'ספרייה'‪.‬‬




                            ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬

                       ‫‪23‬‬
                                         ‫‪ .5‬פיידר טמפו‬




‫פיידר טמפו‪ :‬מגדיר את מהירות הנגינה של הרצועה‪ ,‬על‪-‬ידי‬
                                ‫כוונון של מספר ה‪.BPM-‬‬
                       ‫‪ −‬העלאה‪ :‬האטה של הרצועה‪.‬‬
                        ‫‪ −‬הורדה‪ :‬האצה של הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬פיידר טמפו באמצע‪ :‬המהירות המקורית של הרצועה‪.‬‬
                             ‫הנורה הלבנה תידלק‪.‬‬


‫ההנחיות‬   ‫מופעלת‪,‬‬   ‫‪Beatmatch‬‬    ‫‪Guide‬‬     ‫כשהפונקציה‬
‫הוויזואליות של ‪ TEMPO‬מציינות אם צריך להעלות או‬
‫להוריד את פיידר הטמפו‪ ,‬כדי להאט או להאיץ את הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫כשהחיצים האדומים כבויים‪ ,‬הטמפו בדק הנוכחי זהה לטמפו‬
                                            ‫בדק האחר‪.‬‬


‫למידע נוסף על פונקציית ‪ ,Beatmatch Guide‬קראו את‬
                         ‫החלק של ‪.Beatmatch Guide‬‬


                        ‫‪24‬‬
‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬כשמצב ‪ SYNC‬מופעל‪,‬‬
‫לחיצה על ‪ SHIFT‬והעלאה של פיידר הטמפו בו‪-‬זמנית יאפשרו‬
‫להזיז את הערכים של פיידר הטמפו‪ ,‬תוך שמירה על אותה‬
                                              ‫אמפליטודה‪.‬‬


‫למשל‪ ,‬בסולם טמפו של ‪ ,±8%‬או עוצמה של ‪ ,%16‬אפשר להזיז‬
‫את הערכים של פיידר הטמפו כך שיכסו טווח של ‪( %0‬מקסימום)‬
‫עד ‪( -16%‬מינימום)‪ ,‬שעדיין נותן ‪ %16‬עוצמה‪ ,‬כאשר ‪ -8%‬במרכז‪.‬‬




                           ‫‪25‬‬
‫‪ :*RANGE‬מאפשר לשנות את סולם הטמפו של הפיידרים‬
                                           ‫של הטמפו‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪,± 12 % ,± 10 % ,± 8 % ,± 6 % :DJUCED-‬‬
       ‫‪.± 50 % ,± 33 % ,± 25 % ,± 20 % ,± 16 %‬‬
         ‫‪ −‬ב‪.± 50 % ,± 16 % ,± 8 % :Serato DJ Lite-‬‬
‫‪ :)KEYLOCK( RANGE + SHIFT‬נועל את המפתח המוזיקלי‬
                                          ‫של הרצועה‪.‬‬
‫כדי לוודא שהסולם המוזיקלי נעול‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על ‪.SHIFT‬‬
                                ‫הכפתור ‪ RANGE‬יידלק‪.‬‬




                             ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬
                        ‫‪26‬‬
                                     ‫‪ .6‬פדים ומצבים‬




‫כפתורי מצבים‪ :‬מאפשרים להפעיל שמונה מצבים לכל‬
                                              ‫היותר‪.‬‬
‫כדי להפעיל מצב ראשי‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על ‪,HOT CUE 1‬‬
                  ‫‪ STEMS 3 ,LOOP 2‬או ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
‫כדי להפעיל מצב משני (‪ MODE 7 ,MODE 6 ,MODE 5‬ו‪-‬‬
‫‪ ,)MODE 8‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל ‪,HOT CUE 1‬‬
‫‪ STEMS 3 ,LOOP 2‬או ‪ .SAMPLER 4‬כפתור המצב יהבהב‪.‬‬
‫המצבים המופעלים בפדים משתנים לפי התוכנה שבה‬
                                         ‫משתמשים‪.‬‬


‫למידע נוסף על המצבים השונים עם ‪Serato DJ ,DJUCED‬‬
 ‫‪ Lite‬ו‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬יש לקרוא את הפרק מצבים ופדים‪.‬‬


               ‫פדים ביצועיים‪ :‬פד מבצע פעולה מסוימת‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪27‬‬
                                      ‫‪ .7‬מצבי השמעה‬




‫‪ :INSTRUMENTAL‬מאפשר לנגן רק את חלקי ה'מלודיה'‪,‬‬
    ‫'בס' ו'תופים' של הרצועה‪ .‬זהו קיצור דרך למצב ‪.Stems‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי לנגן רק את חלקי ה'מלודיה'‪' ,‬בס' ו'תופים' של‬
‫הרצועה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על הכפתור ‪.INSTRUMENTAL‬‬
                                    ‫הכפתור יידלק‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי לשוב ולנגן את כל חלקי הרצועה (קולות‪ ,‬מלודיה‪,‬‬
‫הכפתור‬   ‫על‬     ‫שוב‬   ‫ללחוץ‬   ‫יש‬    ‫ותופים)‪,‬‬   ‫בס‬
              ‫‪ .INSTRUMENTAL‬נורת הכפתור תכבה‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪28‬‬
‫‪ :INSTRUMENTAL + SHIFT‬מפעיל את מצב ‪ .Slip‬במצב‬
‫‪ ,Slip‬נקודת ההפעלה של הדק ממשיכה להתקדם ברקע‬
‫בעת יישום של אפקט או לופ‪ ,‬הצבה של נקודת ‪ Cue‬או בעת‬
‫שימוש בפלטות הממונעות‪ .‬כשמפסיקים ליישם אפקט‪,‬‬
‫הנגינה מתחדשת מהנקודה שבה הרצועה הייתה אמורה‬
                            ‫להיות לּו המשיכה להתנגן‪.‬‬
‫כדי לוודא הפעלה של מצב ‪ ,Slip‬יש ללחוץ על ‪.SHIFT‬‬
                     ‫הכפתור ‪ INSTRUMENTAL‬יידלק‪.‬‬




                    ‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬לא כולל מצב ‪.Slip‬‬
                       ‫‪ Serato DJ Pro‬כולל מצב ‪.Slip‬‬




                       ‫‪29‬‬
‫‪ :VOCAL‬מאפשר לך לנגן רק את חלק הקולות של רצועה‪.‬‬
                             ‫זהו קיצור דרך למצב ‪.Stems‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי לנגן רק את חלק הקולות של רצועה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על‬
                   ‫הכפתור ‪ .VOCAL‬הכפתור יידלק‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי לשוב ולנגן את כל חלקי הרצועה (קולות‪ ,‬מלודיה‪,‬‬
‫בס ותופים)‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ שוב על הכפתור ‪ .VOCAL‬נורת‬
                                    ‫הכפתור תכבה‪.‬‬


‫‪ :VOCAL + SHIFT‬מפעיל את מצב ‪( Quantize‬קוונטיזציה)‪.‬‬
‫קוונטיזציה (עיבוד אותות) מאפשרת ליישם פעולה מסוימת‬
‫על הפעימה הבאה ברשת (לנגן את הרצועה‪ ,‬לשים נקודת‬
                                  ‫‪ ,Cue‬להתחיל לופ…)‪.‬‬
‫כדי לוודא הפעלה של מצב ‪ ,Quantize‬יש ללחוץ על ‪.SHIFT‬‬
                                 ‫הכפתור ‪ VOCAL‬יידלק‪.‬‬




                ‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬לא כולל מצב ‪.Quantize‬‬
                   ‫‪ Serato DJ Pro‬כולל מצב ‪.Quantize‬‬




                        ‫‪30‬‬
‫(‪ :)pitch bend +‬מאפשר להתאים‬      ‫(‪/)pitch bend -‬‬
‫ידנית את רשת הפעימות של הרצועה המתנגנת בדק זה‬
                             ‫לרשת הפעימות בדק האחר‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי להאט לרגע את הדק‪ ,‬אפשר ללחוץ ולהחזיק את‬
                                            ‫‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬כדי להאיץ לרגע את הדק‪ ,‬אפשר ללחוץ ולהחזיק את‬
                                            ‫‪.‬‬




     ‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬עם ‪+ SHIFT‬‬
‫ניתן להתאים את ההגדרות במצבים‬             ‫ו‪+ SHIFT-‬‬
                                  ‫מסוימים ('הגדרות')‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪31‬‬
                                             ‫מיקסינג‬

           ‫‪ .8‬ניטור‪ ,‬עוצמת קול ו‪Beatmatch Guide-‬‬




           ‫ווליום ‪ :MIC‬מכוונן את הווליום של המיקרופון‪.‬‬


‫טבעת מוארת של ‪ :MIC‬מציינת את עוצמת אות השמע (מד‬
                                                 ‫‪.)VU‬‬
                               ‫‪ −‬כבוי‪ :‬אין אות שמע‪.‬‬
                          ‫‪ −‬ירוק‪ :‬אות השמע מתנגן‪.‬‬
                             ‫‪ −‬אדום‪ :‬אות השמע רווי‪.‬‬


‫ווליום ‪ :MASTER‬מכוונן את הווליום של המיקס המתנגן‬
                                       ‫כעת ברמקולים‪.‬‬


‫מד ‪ VU‬של ‪ :MASTER‬מציג את עוצמת אות השמע של‬
               ‫יציאת ‪ RCA( Master‬או ‪ )XLR‬לרמקולים‪.‬‬

                        ‫‪32‬‬
                                 ‫ווליום ‪:HEADPHONES‬‬
‫‪ :‬מכוונן את האות המתנגן באוזניות שלכם‪ ,‬עם‬       ‫‪/‬‬     ‫‪−‬‬
‫מיקסינג של היציאה ‪( Cue‬ניטור הדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪ )2-‬והיציאה‬
                                ‫‪( Mix‬יציאת ‪.)Master‬‬
‫‪ o‬כדי להאזין רק לניטור‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על כפתורי הניטור‬
‫של הדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪ .2-‬הכפתורים יידלקו‪ .‬לאחר מכן‪ ,‬יש‬
                   ‫להעביר את הנוב למצב ‪.Cue‬‬
‫‪ o‬כדי להאזין רק ליציאת ‪ ,Master‬יש ללחוץ על‬
‫כפתור ניטור ‪ .Master‬הכפתור יידלק‪ .‬לאחר מכן‪,‬‬
‫יש להעביר את הנוב למצב ‪ ,Mix‬כדי להתאים את‬
                 ‫המיקס המתנגן באוזניות שלכם‪.‬‬
      ‫‪ :‬מכוונן את עוצמת הקול היוצא מהאוזניות‪.‬‬         ‫‪−‬‬




                          ‫‪33‬‬
     ‫‪.‬‬   ‫ניטור‪ :‬כאן בוחרים את מקור הסאונד שיתנגן באוזניות‬
‫(מתחת למד ‪ VU‬של ‪ :)MASTER‬מנגן לקהל בקול‬              ‫‪−‬‬
                    ‫את הסאונד מהמיקס המתנגן עכשיו‪.‬‬
‫* (נמצא בשני הצדדים של הכפתור ‪BEATMATCH‬‬              ‫‪−‬‬
‫‪ :)GUIDE‬מנגן את הסאונד של דק ‪ 1‬או דק ‪2‬‬
                 ‫כשהכפתור ‪ Mix/Cue‬נמצא במצב ‪.Cue‬‬
‫* (ליד‬        ‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬יש ללחוץ על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
‫הכפתור ‪ )BEATMATCH GUIDE‬כדי לשנות את רשת‬
‫הפעימות של הרצועה המתנגנת בדק זה‪ .‬כדי לצאת ממצב‬
‫העריכה של רשת הפעימות‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על ‪( Edit Grid‬עריכת‬
                                                  ‫הרשת)‪.‬‬




                                 ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬

                            ‫‪34‬‬
‫‪ :BEATMATCH GUIDE‬מפעיל או משבית את אורות‬
‫ההנחיה לכוונון הטמפו ולהתאמה בין רשתות הפעימות של‬
         ‫שתי הרצועות‪ .‬לכל דק יש ארבעה חיצים אדומים‪.‬‬




‫®‪ DJUCED‬מגדיר את אחד הדקים בתור דק הסנכרון‬
‫הראשי (‪ ,)Master Sync‬ואת השני בתור הדק המשני‪.‬‬
‫החיצים האדומים נדלקים רק בדק המשנה‪ ,‬מכיוון שהדק‬
              ‫עוקב אחר הקצב של דק הסנכרון הראשי‪.‬‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬אינו מגדיר דק סנכרון ראשי‪ .‬החיצים‬
                       ‫האדומים נדלקים בשני הדקים‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪35‬‬
‫‪ −‬הנחיות ויזואליות של ‪ :TEMPO‬אם אחד משני החיצים‬
‫האדומים שמימין לפיידר טמפו מואר‪ ,‬פירוש הדבר‬
‫שהקצב (כלומר‪ ,‬מספר הפעימות לדקה) של הרצועה‬
       ‫המתנגנת בדק זה שונה מהקצב של הדק השני‪.‬‬
‫החיצים מציינים את הכיוון שבו צריך להזיז את פיידר‬
‫הטמפו כדי לכוונן את טמפו הרצועה המתנגנת כך‬
                       ‫שיתאים לטמפו בדק האחר‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬חץ עליון דולק‪ :‬יש להעלות את פיידר הטמפו‪.‬‬
                 ‫הפעולה תאט את הטמפו‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬חץ תחתון דולק‪ :‬יש להוריד את פיידר הטמפו‪.‬‬
                 ‫הפעולה תאיץ את הטמפו‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬החץ לא דולק‪ :‬הטמפו של הדק זהה לטמפו‬
                   ‫של דק הסנכרון הראשי‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪36‬‬
‫‪ −‬מדריכים חזותיים של ‪ :BEAT ALIGN‬אם אחד משני‬
‫החיצים האדומים שמתחת לפלטה הממונעת מואר‪,‬‬
‫פירוש הדבר הוא שהפעימות של הרצועה המתנגנת‬
          ‫בדק זה אינן מותאמות לפעימות בדק השני‪.‬‬
‫החיצים מציינים את הכיוון שבו צריך לסובב את הפלטה‬
‫הממונעת כדי להתאים בין הפעימות של הרצועה‬
            ‫המתנגנת לבין הפעימות של הדק האחר‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬חץ שמאלי דולק‪ :‬יש לסובב את הפלטה‬
‫הממונעת בכיוון השעון‪ .‬הפעולה תאיץ את‬
                                 ‫הנגינה‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬חץ ימני דולק‪ :‬יש לסובב את הפלטה‬
‫הממונעת נגד כיוון השעון‪ .‬הפעולה תאט את‬
                                 ‫הנגינה‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬החיצים לא דולקים‪ :‬הפעימות של הדק‬
  ‫מותאמות לפעימות של דק הסנכרון הראשי‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪37‬‬
                                      ‫‪ .9‬אזור מיקסינג‬




‫נוב ‪ :*GAIN‬מכוונן את ההגברה (כלומר‪ ,‬העוצמה לפני‬
                              ‫הפיידר של עוצמת הקול)‪.‬‬


‫אקולייזר עם ‪ 3‬תחומי תדרים (אקולייזר)*‪ :‬שולט בעוצמת‬
‫האקולייזר‪ .‬לכל תחום תדרים יש נוב משלו‪ MID ,HIGH :‬ו‪-‬‬
                                                 ‫‪.LOW‬‬


‫נוב ‪ :*FILTER‬מכוונן את התדר של המסנן הכפול (מעביר‬
                                ‫גבוהים ומעביר נמוכים)‪.‬‬




                             ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬
                        ‫‪38‬‬
                                       ‫מיקסר‬    ‫‪.10‬‬




        ‫מד ‪ :VU‬מציג את עוצמת אות השמע בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬


                   ‫פיידר ווליום*‪ :‬מכוונן את עוצמת הדק‪.‬‬


‫קרוס‪-‬פיידר‪ :‬מאפשר לבצע מעבר בין שתי רצועות‪ ,‬על‪-‬ידי‬
‫הגברת הווליום באחד הדקים‪ ,‬תוך החלשת הווליום בדק‬
                                               ‫האחר‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬קרוס‪-‬פיידר עד הסוף שמאלה‪ :‬רק הרצועה בדק ‪1‬‬
                                         ‫נשמעת‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬קרוס‪-‬פיידר עד הסוף ימינה‪ :‬רק הרצועה בדק ‪2‬‬
                                         ‫נשמעת‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬קרוס‪-‬פיידר באמצע‪ :‬הרצועות מדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪ 2-‬נשמעות בו‪-‬‬
                                           ‫זמנית‪.‬‬

                         ‫‪39‬‬
    ‫מתג עקומה‪ :‬מאפשר לשנות את עקומת הקרוס‪-‬פיידר‪.‬‬
         ‫(‪ :)mix‬מיקסינג הדרגתי של שני הדקים‪.‬‬        ‫‪−‬‬
   ‫(‪ :)scratch‬מיקסינג מהיר מאוד של שני הדקים‪.‬‬       ‫‪−‬‬
‫(מושבת)‪ :‬הקרוס‪-‬פיידר מושבת‪ ,‬למיקס באמצעות‬           ‫‪−‬‬
                        ‫הפיידרים של הווליום בלבד‪.‬‬




‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬ניתן לשנות את‬
‫הגדרות הקרוס‪-‬פיידר‪ .‬לשם כך‪ ,‬יש לעבור ל"הגדרות"‪ ,‬ואז‬
                                             ‫ל‪:Mixer-‬‬
          ‫‪( Power −‬עוצמה)‪ :‬עקומה מהירה לסקראצ'ינג‪.‬‬
         ‫‪( Linear −‬ליניארי)‪ :‬עקומה הדרגתית למיקסינג‪.‬‬
‫‪( Reverse −‬הפוך)‪ :‬הופך את כיוון הקרוס‪-‬פיידר‪ ,‬נקרא גם‬
                                    ‫מצב "‪."Hamster‬‬




                              ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬
                         ‫‪40‬‬
                                           ‫אפקטים‬    ‫‪.11‬‬




                           ‫כדי להציג את עמדת האפקטים‪:‬‬
                     ‫‪.‬‬      ‫‪ −‬ב‪ :DJUCED-‬להקליק על‬
                 ‫‪.‬‬       ‫‪ −‬ב‪ :Serato DJ Lite-‬להקליק על‬


‫‪ :* / /‬מאפשרים לבחור אפקט‬               ‫כפתורי האפקטים‬
                         ‫מעמדת האפקטים‪ .‬הכפתור יידלק‪.‬‬
           ‫כדי להפעיל אפקט‪ ,‬יש להשתמש בידית הביצוע‪.‬‬
‫‪ , / /‬יש‬   ‫כדי לשנות את האפקטים המשויכים לכפתורים‬
‫לבחור אפקט חדש בעמדת האפקטים‪ .‬ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪-‬‬
   ‫‪,‬‬   ‫‪ ,Serato DJ Pro‬אפשר גם ללחוץ על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
‫כדי להציג את רשימת האפקטים ואז ללחוץ שוב על‬                ‫או‬
‫כדי לנוע ברשימה ולבחור את‬          ‫או‬      ‫‪,‬‬   ‫‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
                                            ‫האפקט החדש‪.‬‬




                                        ‫ב‪:Serato DJ Lite-‬‬
                ‫‪ −‬אפשר לשלב כמה אפקטים בו זמנית‪.‬‬

                            ‫‪41‬‬
    ‫בצד שמאל חלים על הדק‬     ‫‪/ /‬‬     ‫‪ −‬שלושת האפקטים‬
    ‫בצד ימין‬   ‫‪/ /‬‬   ‫השמאלי (דק ‪ ,)1‬ושלושת האפקטים‬
                           ‫חלים על הדק הימני (דק ‪.)2‬‬
    ‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬שתי הקבוצות של שלושת כפתורי‬
               ‫האפקטים חלות על שני הדקים הווירטואליים‪.‬‬


‫‪,‬‬     ‫ידית ביצוע*‪ :‬מאפשרת להפעיל אפקט הטעון בכפתורים‬
                         ‫‪ .‬יש שלושה מצבים שונים‪:‬‬    ‫או‬
‫‪ :HOLD −‬מפעיל רצוף את האפקט כל עוד הידית נמצאת‬
                                            ‫במצב זה‪.‬‬
‫‪ :ON −‬מפעיל לרגע את האפקט כל עוד הידית נמצאת‬
                                            ‫במצב זה‪.‬‬
                             ‫‪ −‬באמצע‪ :‬האפקט מושבת‪.‬‬


                     ‫נוב ‪ :DEPTH‬מכוונן את עוצמת האפקט‪.‬‬


‫‪ : /‬מכווננים את משך המחזור של האפקט‬            ‫הכפתורים‬
                                    ‫המסונכרן עם המוזיקה‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪ DJUCED‬לא כולל יכולת זו‪.‬‬



                                 ‫*התפקוד זהה בדקים ‪ 1‬ו‪.2-‬‬
                            ‫‪42‬‬
                                                  ‫מחברים‬




             ‫יציאת ‪ Master‬לרמקולים (יציאה ‪)2-1‬‬      ‫‪.12‬‬
                        ‫כניסת מיקרופון מאוזנת‬       ‫‪.13‬‬
                               ‫שקע ‪USB-B 2.0‬‬        ‫‪.14‬‬
                               ‫כפתור ‪POWER‬‬          ‫‪.15‬‬
                            ‫מחבר למתאם מתח‬          ‫‪.16‬‬
                      ‫יציאת אוזניות (יציאה ‪)4-3‬‬     ‫‪.17‬‬


‫יציאת ‪ Master‬לרמקולים (יציאה ‪ :)2-1‬מאפשרת לחבר‬
                                       ‫רמקולים פעילים‪.‬‬
‫ו‪XLR x 2-‬‬   ‫פורמטים‪ )Cinch( RCA x 2 :‬לא מאוזנות‬
                                                  ‫מאוזנות‪.‬‬


‫כניסת מיקרופון מאוזנת‪ :‬מאפשרת לחבר מיקרופון מאוזן‬
                                            ‫או לא מאוזן‪.‬‬
                                 ‫פורמט‪ :‬שקע ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ‪.‬‬

                          ‫‪43‬‬
  ‫שקע ‪ :USB-B 2.0‬מאפשר לחבר את הקונטרולר למחשב‪.‬‬


‫כפתור ‪ :POWER‬מאפשר להפעיל ולכבות את הקונטרולר‬
                              ‫‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬


‫מחבר למתאם מתח‪ :‬מאפשר לחבר את כבל החשמל‬
‫ולחבר את הקונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬לשקע חשמלי‬
                                  ‫באמצעות המתאם‪.‬‬


‫יציאת אוזניות (יציאה ‪ :)4-3‬מאפשרת לחבר אוזניות כדי‬
                                      ‫לנטר רצועות‪.‬‬
‫פורמטים‪ :‬מחבר מיני‪-‬שקע סטריאו ‪ 3.5‬מ"מ ומחבר שקע‬
                                  ‫סטריאו ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪44‬‬
‫יש להאריך את ארבע הרגליות כדי להגביה את‬
‫הקונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬ולהעביר את הכבלים‬
                                             ‫מתחתיו‪.‬‬




‫‪ −‬לפני הובלה של קונטרולר ‪ ,DJControl Inpulse T7‬יש‬
                                 ‫לקפל את הרגליות‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬קפלו את הרגליות כשאינכם משתמשים בקונטרולר‬
                              ‫‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫‪ −‬כשהרגליות פתוחות עד הסוף‪ ,‬אין להפעיל לחץ של‬
‫יותר מ‪ 5-‬ק"ג או כוח של יותר מ‪ 50-‬ניוטון על קונטרולר‬
                              ‫‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬




                         ‫‪45‬‬
                                      ‫התקנה‬       ‫‪.4‬‬

                                               ‫חיבורים‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬    ‫‪ .1‬חברו את מתאם המתח לקונטרולר‬
                                        ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬
‫‪ .2‬חברו את כבל החשמל למתאם המתח‪ ,‬וחברו אותו‬
                                      ‫לשקע חשמל‪.‬‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬     ‫‪ .3‬חברו את כבל ה‪ USB-‬לקונטרולר‬
                            ‫‪ Inpulse T7‬ואל המחשב‪.‬‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬    ‫‪ .4‬לחצו על כפתור ‪ POWER‬בקונטרולר‬
                   ‫‪ .Inpulse T7‬הכפתור נלחץ פנימה‪.‬‬
‫‪ .5‬ודאו שהרמקולים כבויים או‪ ,‬אם הם מחוברים למגבר‬
‫חיצוני‪ ,‬שהמגבר כבוי‪ .‬יש לחבר את הכניסות של‬
‫הרמקולים הפעילים ליציאות ‪ Master‬עבור הרמקולים‬
‫של קונטרולר ‪ RCA x 2( DJControl Inpulse T7‬או‬
                                         ‫‪.)XLR x 2‬‬
‫‪ .6‬כווננו ווליום ‪ MASTER‬לעוצמת המינימום בקונטרולר‬
    ‫‪ ,DJControl Inpulse T7‬ואז הפעילו את הרמקולים‪.‬‬
‫‪ .7‬הניחו את האוזניות מסביב לצוואר (ולא על האוזניים)‪,‬‬
‫ואז חברו את האוזניות למחבר המיני‪-‬שקע ‪ 3.5‬מ"מ או‬
                            ‫למחבר השקע ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ‪.‬‬
    ‫‪ .8‬חברו את המיקרופון לכניסת המיקרופון (אופציונלי)‪.‬‬




                          ‫‪46‬‬
                    ‫שנאי‬
 ‫‪ −‬יש להשתמש אך ורק בשנאי שצוין במדריך למשתמש‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬יש להשתמש בשנאי אך ורק ברשת בעלת מתח ותדר‬
‫המתאימים לנתונים שמצוינים בלוחית הנתונים של‬
                                      ‫השנאי‪.‬‬


                      ‫‪47‬‬
‫‪ −‬ניתן להשתמש בו‪-‬זמנית בשני הפורמטים של היציאות‬
‫(‪ XLR‬ו‪ - )RCA-‬לדוגמה‪ ,‬על ידי חיבור זוג יציאות‬
     ‫למערכת הכריזה‪ ,‬וזוג יציאות שני לרמקולי ניטור‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬רצף תאורה של הנורות‪ ,‬הנקרא ‪ Vegas Mode‬יתחיל‬
‫בכל פעם שתחברו את הקונטרולר ‪DJControl Inpulse‬‬
‫‪ T7‬למחשב‪ Vegas Mode .‬מתרחש בארבעה שלבים‪,‬‬
‫מה שמאפשר לו להדליק את כל הנורות ולהציג צבעים‬
‫אפשריים שונים על הרפידות ועל הטבעות עם התאורה‬
               ‫האחורית של מקודדי ה‪.BROWSER-‬‬




                        ‫‪48‬‬
                                       ‫הורדת התוכנה‬

                                           ‫‪DJUCED‬‬

 ‫‪ .1‬בקרו בכתובת ‪.https://www.djuced.com/hercules‬‬
                     ‫‪ .2‬הורידו והתקינו את ®‪.DJUCED‬‬
                                       ‫‪ .3‬בקרו באתר‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin‬‬
                              ‫‪( pulset7/‬באנגלית)‪.‬‬
‫‪ .4‬הורידו והתקינו את חבילת מנהלי ההתקנים שמיועדת‬
        ‫למערכת ההפעלה המותקנת אצלכם במחשב‪.‬‬
              ‫‪HDJC Series Mac :macOS® o‬‬
             ‫‪HDJC Series PC :Windows® o‬‬
‫ב‪ Windows®-‬יש להתקין את מנהלי ההתקנים על מנת‬
‫להשתמש ב‪ DJControl Inpulse T7-‬במצב ‪ASIO‬‬
‫המפחית את ההשהיה בהשוואה למצב ‪,WASAPI‬‬
                         ‫ובאופן כללי גם יציב יותר‪.‬‬
‫מנהלי ההתקנים גם מאפשרים לבדוק את הקונטרולר‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬ולוודא את גרסת הקושחה ב‪-‬‬
                          ‫®‪ Windows‬וב‪.macOS®-‬‬
‫‪ .5‬הפעילו את תוכנת ‪ .DJUCED‬יופיע חלון המציין‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬    ‫הקונטרולר‬   ‫את‬    ‫זיהתה‬    ‫שהמערכת‬
                   ‫‪ ,Inpulse T7‬ושהוא מוכן לשימוש‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪49‬‬
 ‫בעת הפעלת התוכנה בפעם הראשונה‪ DJUCED® ,‬תנחה‬
 ‫אתכם בתהליך חיבור האוזניות והרמקולים הפעילים (או‬
 ‫שתאפשר להשתמש ברמקולים המשולבים במחשב‪ ,‬אם‬
 ‫אין רמקולים פעילים חיצוניים)‪ .‬לפני שתתחילו‪ ,‬יש לבצע‬
               ‫שלב אחר שלב את המידע המופיע במסך‪.‬‬


                                          ‫הגדרות שמע‪:‬‬
‫כדי לשנות הגדרות של כרטיס קול ב‪ ,DJUCED®-‬יש להקליק‬
‫בפינה הימנית‪-‬עליונה של המסך‪.‬‬       ‫על סמל גלגל השיניים‬
                                   ‫תפריט ההגדרות יוצג‪.‬‬
‫ניתן לבחור בכרטיסייה ‪( Audio‬שמע) כדי לבחור את כרטיס‬
          ‫הקול ולהקצות את היציאות לאוזניות ולרמקולים‪.‬‬

             ‫להלן ההגדרה הסטנדרטית עבור ®‪:Windows‬‬
‫‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬    ‫‪( Audio device −‬התקן שמע)‪:‬‬
                                     ‫‪)ASIO( ASIO‬‬
                                    ‫‪( Output −‬יציאה)‪:‬‬
                       ‫‪Outputs 1&2 :Master o‬‬

               ‫‪Outputs 3&4 :Headphones o‬‬




                           ‫‪50‬‬
          :macOS® ‫להלן ההגדרה הסטנדרטית עבור‬
DJControl Inpulse T7 :)‫ (התקן שמע‬Audio device −
                              :)‫ (יציאה‬Output −
                 Outputs 1&2 :Master o

           Outputs 3&4 :Headphones o




                     51
                                     ‫‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬

                                     ‫‪ .1‬בקרו בכתובת‬
           ‫‪.https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads‬‬
                 ‫‪ .2‬הורידו והתקינו את ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
                                      ‫‪ .3‬בקרו באתר‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin‬‬
                              ‫‪( pulset7/‬באנגלית)‪.‬‬
‫‪ .4‬הורידו והתקינו את חבילת מנהלי ההתקנים שמיועדת‬
        ‫למערכת ההפעלה המותקנת אצלכם במחשב‪.‬‬
             ‫‪HDJC Series Mac :macOS® o‬‬

             ‫‪HDJC Series PC :Windows® o‬‬

‫ב‪ Windows®-‬יש להתקין את מנהלי ההתקנים על מנת‬
‫להשתמש ב‪ DJControl Inpulse T7-‬במצב ‪ASIO‬‬
‫המפחית את ההשהיה בהשוואה למצב ‪,WASAPI‬‬
                         ‫ובאופן כללי גם יציב יותר‪.‬‬
‫מנהלי ההתקנים גם מאפשרים לבדוק את הקונטרולר‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬ולוודא את גרסת הקושחה ב‪-‬‬
                          ‫®‪ Windows‬וב‪.macOS®-‬‬




                         ‫‪52‬‬
‫‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬כולל רישיון עבור ‪Serato‬‬
               ‫‪ ,DJ Lite‬ולא רישיון עבור ‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬
    ‫ניתן להשתמש ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬ללא כל מגבלת זמן‪.‬‬
‫אם תתקינו את ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬במקום את ‪Serato DJ‬‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Pro ,Lite‬תפעל עם ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫למשך תקופת הניסיון‪ .‬בסוף תקופת הניסיון‪ ,‬אם רוצים‬
‫להמשיך להשתמש ב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬יש לקנות רישיון‬
                                       ‫‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬




                         ‫‪53‬‬
                    ‫להוסיף חיים למיקס‬          ‫‪.5‬‬
              ‫יש כמה דרכים להוסיף חיים למיקס שלכם‪.‬‬



                                       ‫מצבים ופדים‬

                                               ‫הפדים‬

‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬פדים ‪ 1‬עד ‪ 8‬מבצעים את הפעולות‬
                     ‫המתאימות למצב המופעל הנוכחי‪.‬‬


‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬פדים ‪ 1‬עד ‪ 4‬מבצעים את הפעולות‬
‫המתאימות למצב המופעל הנוכחי‪ .‬פדים ‪ 5‬עד ‪ 8‬מבצעים את‬
                                    ‫הפעולות הבאות‪:‬‬
                     ‫‪ −‬פד ‪( Reverse :5‬היפוך נגינה)‬
                             ‫‪ −‬פד ‪ :6‬הרצה אחורה‬
                             ‫‪ −‬פד ‪ :7‬הרצה קדימה‬
‫‪ −‬פד ‪ .Censor :8‬הפעולה מאפשרת לנגן את הרצועה‬
‫הפוך‪ ,‬כל עוד הפד מוחזק‪ .‬כשמשחררים את הפד‪,‬‬
‫הנגינה מתחדשת מהנקודה שבה הרצועה הייתה‬
‫אמורה להיות לו המשיכה להתנגן כרגיל‪ .‬כך אפשר‬
                         ‫לכסות שפה בוטה בשיר‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪54‬‬
    ‫המצבים המופעלים בפדים משתנים לפי התוכנה שבה‬
                                           :‫משתמשים‬


Serato DJ Pro** Serato DJ Lite   DJUCED ‫מצבים‬

   Hot Cue         Hot Cue        Hot Cue       1

  Auto Loop       Auto Loop      Loop Roll      2
    Stems           Stems          Stems        3
   Sampler         Sampler        Sampler       4
  Pitch Play          –          TonePlay       5
   Loop Roll          –            PadFX        6
 Manual Loop     Manual Loop     Slicer Loop    7
Scratch Banks   Scratch Banks    BeatJump       8
                      .Serato DJ Pro ‫**לא כולל רישיון‬




                       55
                                        ‫מצב ‪Hot Cue‬‬

‫נקודת ‪ Hot Cue‬היא סמן (כמו סימנייה) שניתן לשים ברצועה‬
‫מסוימת‪ ,‬כדי לאתר בקלות את אותו הרגע ברצועה ולחזור‬
                                    ‫אליו מיד לאחר מכן‪.‬‬


‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬ניתן להגדיר לכל רצועה שמונה נקודות ‪Hot‬‬
                                                 ‫‪.Cue‬‬


‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬ניתן להגדיר לכל רצועה ארבע נקודות‬
                                             ‫‪.Hot Cue‬‬
‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬ניתן להגדיר לכל רצועה שמונה נקודות‬
                                             ‫‪.Hot Cue‬‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,Hot Cue‬לחצו על ‪.HOT CUE 1‬‬
                 ‫הכפתור ‪ HOT CUE 1‬ימשיך לדלוק‪.‬‬
            ‫‪ .2‬כדי להגדיר נקודת ‪ ,Hot Cue‬לחצו על פד‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי לנגן את הרצועה מנקודת ‪ ,Hot Cue‬לחצו על הפד‬
                                         ‫המתאים‪.‬‬
‫‪ .4‬כדי להסיר נקודת ‪ ,Hot Cue‬לחצו על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל הפד‬
                                         ‫בו‪-‬זמנית‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪56‬‬
                                           ‫מצב ‪Loop‬‬




‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב זה מקביל למצב ‪ .Loop Roll‬נקודת‬
‫ההפעלה של הדק ממשיכה להתקדם ברקע כשמפעילים‬
‫לופ‪ .‬כשמשביתים את הלופ‪ ,‬הנגינה מתחדשת מהנקודה‬
   ‫שבה הרצועה הייתה אמורה להיות לו המשיכה להתנגן‪.‬‬
‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬מצב זה מקביל‬
                                   ‫למצב ‪.Auto Loop‬‬


              ‫לופ הוא חלק של הרצועה המנוגן שוב ושוב‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ Loop‬יש ללחוץ על ‪ .LOOP 2‬הכפתור‬
                             ‫‪ LOOP 2‬ימשיך לדלוק‪.‬‬


                                        ‫ב‪:DJUCED-‬‬
‫‪ .2‬כדי ליישם לופ מסוים‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ לחיצה ממושכת על‬
                                     ‫אחד הפדים‪.‬‬
      ‫‪ .3‬כדי להשבית לופ‪ ,‬יש לשחרר את הפד המתאים‪.‬‬


                                    ‫ב‪:Serato DJ Lite-‬‬
                   ‫‪ .2‬כדי ליישם לופ‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על פד‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי להשבית לופ‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על הפד המתאים‪.‬‬



                        ‫‪57‬‬
                                   ‫אורך לופ‪:‬‬
‫‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬   ‫‪DJUCED‬‬      ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
   ‫‪ 1‬פעימה‬       ‫‪ 16/1‬פעימה‬     ‫פד ‪1‬‬
  ‫‪ 2‬פעימות‬        ‫⅛ פעימה‬       ‫פד ‪2‬‬
  ‫‪ 4‬פעימות‬        ‫¼ פעימה‬       ‫פד ‪3‬‬
  ‫‪ 8‬פעימות‬        ‫½ פעימה‬       ‫פד ‪4‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬           ‫‪ 1‬פעימה‬       ‫פד ‪5‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬           ‫‪ 2‬פעימות‬      ‫פד ‪6‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬           ‫‪ 4‬פעימות‬      ‫פד ‪7‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬           ‫‪ 8‬פעימות‬      ‫פד ‪8‬‬




                      ‫‪58‬‬
                                          ‫מצב ‪Stems‬‬

‫מצב ‪ Stems‬מאפשר להפריד רצועה לארבעה חלקים‬
           ‫נפרדים (קולות וכלי נגינה)‪ ,‬הנקראים "‪."stems‬‬


‫כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,Stems‬יש ללחוץ על ‪.STEMS 3‬‬       ‫‪.1‬‬
            ‫נורת הכפתור ‪ STEMS 3‬תמשיך לדלוק‪.‬‬
‫כל אחד מהפדים ‪ 1‬עד ‪ 4‬משויך ל‪ stem-‬מסוים‪.‬‬         ‫‪.2‬‬
‫כדי להפסיק לנגן ‪ stem‬מסוים‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על הפד‬
                    ‫המתאים‪ .‬האור של הפד יכבה‪.‬‬
‫כדי להמשיך בנגינת ה‪ ,stem-‬יש ללחוץ על הפד‬        ‫‪.3‬‬
                             ‫המתאים‪ .‬הפד יידלק‪.‬‬


                                               ‫‪:Stems‬‬
          ‫‪Stem‬‬                    ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
          ‫קולות‬                      ‫פד ‪1‬‬
         ‫מלודיה‬                      ‫פד ‪2‬‬
           ‫בס‬                        ‫פד ‪3‬‬
         ‫תופים‬                       ‫פד ‪4‬‬




                        ‫‪59‬‬
‫כשמפעילים ‪ stems‬ברצועה בפעם הראשונה‪ ,‬ההפרדה‬
‫לא תמיד מיידית‪ .‬התהליך עשוי להימשך כמה רגעים‪ ,‬עד‬
‫שתוכנת הדי‪.‬ג'יי תנתח את הרצועה‪ ,‬ותפיק את החלקים‬
                 ‫השונים (קולות‪ ,‬מלודיה‪ ,‬בס‪ ,‬תופים)‪.‬‬


‫יש לזכור להשאיר מספיק זמן בין רגע ההפרדה של ה‪-‬‬
‫‪ stems‬לרגע הנגינה שלהם‪ .‬לאחר ההפקה של חלקי ה‪-‬‬
          ‫‪ stems‬השונים‪ ,‬נגינת ה‪ stems-‬תהיה מיידית‪.‬‬


         ‫נדרש מחשב חזק כדי להשתמש במצב ‪.Stems‬‬




                       ‫‪60‬‬
                                        ‫מצב ‪Sampler‬‬

‫דגימה (סמפל) היא סאונד קצר המנוגן על הרצועה המתנגנת‬
‫הנוכחית‪ :‬ניתן להפעיל אותה פעם אחת (‪ )jingle‬או בחזרות‬
                                                 ‫(לופ)‪.‬‬


‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬הפדים ‪ 1‬עד ‪ 8‬מאפשרים לנגן את שמונה‬
‫הדגימות הנמצאות בשתי השורות הראשונות של הסמפלר‬
                                          ‫הרב‪-‬שכבתי‪.‬‬
‫כדי להציג את הסמפלר הרב‪-‬שכבתי‪ ,‬יש לבחור באפשרות‬
‫‪ 2Decks Horizontal + 2 Samplers‬מהתפריט הנפתח בפינה‬
              ‫השמאלית העליונה של המסך ב‪.DJUCED-‬‬


     ‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬הפדים ‪ 1‬עד ‪ 4‬מאפשר לנגן דגימה‪.‬‬
‫ב‪Serato -‬‬    ‫כדי להציג את לוח הדגימות‪ ,‬ניתן להקליק על‬
                                               ‫‪.DJ Lite‬‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,Sampler‬לחצו על ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
            ‫נורת הכפתור ‪ SAMPLER 4‬תמשיך לדלוק‪.‬‬
                       ‫‪ .2‬כדי לנגן דגימה‪ ,‬לחצו על פד‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי לעצור נגינה של דגימה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על‬
                         ‫‪ SHIFT‬ועל הפד המתאים‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪61‬‬
                                                 ‫מצב ‪5‬‬




         ‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬לא כולל את מצב ‪.)TonePlay( 5‬‬
‫‪ ,Serato DJ Pro‬בשילוב עם התוסף ‪,Pitch 'n Time‬‬
‫מאפשר מצב ‪ Pitch Play‬שפועל לפי אותו עיקרון כמו מצב‬
                                            ‫‪.TonePlay‬‬


‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 5‬מקביל למצב ‪ .TonePlay‬מצב זה‬
    ‫מאפשר ניגון חוזר של נקודת ‪ Hot Cue‬לפי טונים שונים‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬הפעילו את מצב ‪ ,Hot Cue‬ולאחר מכן בחרו נקודת ‪Hot‬‬
                                             ‫‪.Cue‬‬
‫‪ .2‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,5‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
          ‫‪ .HOT CUE 1‬הכפתור ‪ HOT CUE 1‬יהבהב‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי לשנות את הטון של נקודת ‪ Hot Cue‬מסוימת‪ ,‬יש‬
                      ‫ללחוץ על אחד הפדים ‪ 2‬עד ‪.8‬‬
          ‫‪ .4‬כדי לחזור לטון המקורי‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על פד ‪.1‬‬




                         ‫‪62‬‬
                          ‫שינוי הטון‪:‬‬

  ‫טון‬            ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
‫טון מקורי‬          ‫פד ‪1‬‬
  ‫‪+1‬‬               ‫פד ‪2‬‬
  ‫‪+2‬‬               ‫פד ‪3‬‬
  ‫‪+3‬‬               ‫פד ‪4‬‬
   ‫‪-1‬‬              ‫פד ‪5‬‬
   ‫‪-2‬‬              ‫פד ‪6‬‬
   ‫‪-3‬‬              ‫פד ‪7‬‬
   ‫‪-4‬‬              ‫פד ‪8‬‬




            ‫‪63‬‬
                                                ‫מצב ‪6‬‬




                     ‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬לא כולל את מצב ‪.6‬‬


‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 6‬מקביל למצב ‪ .PadFX‬מצב זה מאפשר‬
     ‫לשלוט באפקטים בעמדת האפקטים באמצעות הפדים‪.‬‬
‫אפקט הוא פילטר או שילוב של פילטרים‪ ,‬שאותו מיישמים‬
  ‫על רצועה כדי לשנות את הסאונד שלה (אקו‪ ,‬ריוורב ועוד)‪.‬‬


        ‫‪.‬‬   ‫כדי להציג את עמדת האפקטים‪ ,‬יש להקליק על‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,6‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
                 ‫‪ .LOOP 2‬הכפתור ‪ LOOP 2‬יהבהב‪.‬‬
            ‫‪ .2‬כדי לבצע פעולה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על פד מסוים‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי להשבית אפקט‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על הפד המתאים (פד ‪1‬‬
                                           ‫עד ‪.)3‬‬




                         ‫‪64‬‬
                               ‫פעולות אפשריות‪:‬‬

          ‫אפקטים‬                  ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
      ‫אפקט ‪ 1‬של העמדה‬               ‫פד ‪1‬‬
      ‫אפקט ‪ 2‬של העמדה‬               ‫פד ‪2‬‬
      ‫אפקט ‪ 3‬של העמדה‬               ‫פד ‪3‬‬
 ‫מציג‪/‬מסתיר את עמדת האפקטים‬         ‫פד ‪4‬‬
‫משנה את אפקט ‪ 1‬בעמדת האפקטים‬        ‫פד ‪5‬‬
‫משנה את אפקט ‪ 2‬בעמדת האפקטים‬        ‫פד ‪6‬‬
‫משנה את אפקט ‪ 3‬בעמדת האפקטים‬        ‫פד ‪7‬‬
             ‫‪-‬‬                      ‫פד ‪8‬‬




                   ‫‪65‬‬
                                                ‫מצב ‪7‬‬




‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 7‬מקביל למצב ‪ .Slicer Loop‬ב‪Serato -‬‬
‫‪ DJ Lite‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬מצב ‪ 7‬מקביל למצב ‪Manual‬‬
                                               ‫‪.Loop‬‬


‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 7‬מקביל למצב ‪ .Slicer Loop‬מצב זה‬
          ‫מאפשר לפרוס את הלופ הפעיל לשמונה קטעים‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,)Slicer Loop( 7‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית‬
 ‫על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל ‪ .STEMS 3‬הכפתור ‪ STEMS 3‬יהבהב‪.‬‬
‫‪ .2‬כדי לנגן קטע מסוים בתור לופ‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ לחיצה‬
                           ‫ממושכת על אחד הפדים‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי לעצור נגינה של קטע‪ ,‬יש לשחרר את הפד‬
                                         ‫המתאים‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪66‬‬
‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬מצב ‪ 7‬מקביל למצב‬
    ‫‪.‬‬   ‫‪ .Manual Loop‬מצב זה מאפשר להפעיל לופ באופן ידני‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,)Manual Loop( 7‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית‬
 ‫על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל ‪ .STEMS 3‬הכפתור ‪ STEMS 3‬יהבהב‪.‬‬
               ‫‪ .2‬כדי לבצע פעולה‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על פד מסוים‪.‬‬


                                        ‫פעולות אפשריות‪:‬‬

                 ‫אפקטים‬                      ‫דק ‪2/1‬‬
   ‫לחיצה ראשונה‪ :‬מגדירה את נקודת‬               ‫פד ‪1‬‬
                ‫הכניסה (‪)IN‬‬
 ‫לחיצה שנייה‪ :‬משנה את נקודת הכניסה‬
                   ‫(‪)IN‬‬
   ‫לחיצה ראשונה‪ :‬מגדירה את נקודת‬               ‫פד ‪2‬‬
               ‫היציאה (‪)OUT‬‬
 ‫לחיצה שנייה‪ :‬משנה את נקודת היציאה‬
                  ‫(‪)OUT‬‬
           ‫מפעיל‪/‬משבית את הלופ‬                 ‫פד ‪3‬‬
 ‫מזיז את נקודת ההפעלה לתחילת הלופ‪,‬‬             ‫פד ‪4‬‬
          ‫ומפעיל את הלופ (‪)Reloop‬‬

         ‫מגדיל‪/‬מקטין את אורך הלופ‬             ‫מקודד‬
                                           ‫‪AUTOLOOP‬‬




                              ‫‪67‬‬
                                                ‫מצב ‪8‬‬




‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 8‬מקביל למצב ‪ .BeatJump‬ב‪Serato -‬‬
‫‪ DJ Lite‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬מצב ‪ 8‬מקביל למצב ‪Scratch‬‬
                                               ‫‪.Banks‬‬

‫ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬מצב ‪ 8‬מקביל למצב ‪ .BeatJump‬מצב זה‬
                   ‫מאפשר קפיצה מדויקת בתוך הרצועה‪.‬‬

‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,)BeatJump( 8‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על‬
‫‪SAMPLER 4‬‬     ‫‪ SHIFT‬ועל ‪ .SAMPLER 4‬הכפתור‬
                                           ‫יהבהב‪.‬‬
                ‫‪ .2‬כדי לקפוץ‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על אחד הפדים‪.‬‬


                                         ‫אורך הקפיצה‪:‬‬

          ‫קפיצה‬                    ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
      ‫לחזור ‪ 1‬פעימה‬                   ‫פד ‪1‬‬
     ‫להתקדם ‪ 1‬פעימה‬                   ‫פד ‪2‬‬
      ‫לחזור ‪ 2‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪3‬‬
     ‫להתקדם ‪ 2‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪4‬‬
      ‫לחזור ‪ 4‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪5‬‬
     ‫להתקדם ‪ 4‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪6‬‬
      ‫לחזור ‪ 8‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪7‬‬
     ‫להתקדם ‪ 8‬פעימות‬                  ‫פד ‪8‬‬


                         ‫‪68‬‬
‫ב‪ Serato DJ Lite-‬וב‪ ,Serato DJ Pro-‬מצב ‪ 8‬מקביל למצב‬
‫‪ .Scratch Banks‬מצב זה מאפשר לטעון מיד דגימת סקראץ'‬
‫בדק כדי לעשות סקראצ'ינג מהפלטה הממונעת‪ ,‬במקום‬
‫הרצועה המתנגנת כעת‪ ,‬ואז לחזור מהר לרצועה המתנגנת‬
                                                  ‫כעת‪.‬‬
‫ב‪-‬‬    ‫כדי להציג את לוח דגימות הסקראץ'‪ ,‬ניתן להקליק על‬
                                        ‫‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬


‫‪ .1‬כדי לעבור למצב ‪ ,)Scratch Banks( 8‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬‬
‫הכפתור‬    ‫‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬     ‫ועל‬   ‫‪SHIFT‬‬    ‫על‬    ‫זמנית‬
                               ‫‪ SAMPLER 4‬יהבהב‪.‬‬
     ‫‪ .2‬כדי לנגן דגימת סקראץ'‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על אחד הפדים‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬כדי להפסיק לנגן דגימת סקראץ' ולחזור לרצועה‬
‫שהתנגנה קודם לכן‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ בו‪-‬זמנית על ‪ SHIFT‬ועל‬
                                     ‫הפד המתאים‪.‬‬


                                                ‫דגימות‪:‬‬
           ‫דגימה‬                    ‫דק ‪/1‬דק ‪2‬‬
            ‫!‪Ahh‬‬                       ‫פד ‪1‬‬
          ‫!‪Hey You‬‬                     ‫פד ‪2‬‬
           ‫!‪Oww‬‬                        ‫פד ‪3‬‬
           ‫!‪Yeah‬‬                       ‫פד ‪4‬‬




                          ‫‪69‬‬
                                                 ‫סקראצ'ינג‬

‫סקראצ'ינג מפיק אפקט סאונד מהרצועה על‪-‬ידי סיבוב של‬
                                          ‫הפלטה הממונעת‪.‬‬


‫הניחו את האצבע המורה על חלקה העליון של הפלטה‬
   ‫הממונעת‪ ,‬ובצעו תנועות קטנות ומהירות ימינה ושמאלה‪.‬‬


        ‫ניתן לחזור על הסקראץ' כמה פעמים כדי ליצור קצב‪.‬‬




 ‫‪ −‬לפני סקראצ'ינג ומיקסינג‪ ,‬יש לוודא שמשטח ההחלקה עשוי‬
  ‫הלֶ בֶ ד (סליפמט) הונח בין הפלטה הממונעת לתקליט הוויניל‪.‬‬
 ‫‪ −‬כאשר מניחים את תקליט הוויניל על הפלטה הממונעת‪ ,‬אין‬
 ‫לעשות זאת בכוח‪ .‬הנחתו בכוח עלולה לפגוע במרכז תקליט‬
                                                   ‫הוויניל‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪70‬‬
                                         ‫פילטרים‬

‫כוונון הפילטר של הרצועה מאפשר להתאים תדרים‬
                                         ‫מסוימים‪.‬‬


‫‪ −‬התאימו את התדרים הגבוהים (פילטר מעביר נמוכים‬
‫או חוסם גבוהים)‪ :‬סובבו את נוב הפילטר (‪)FILTER‬‬
                                      ‫שמאלה‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬התאימו את התדרים הנמוכים (פילטר מעביר גבוהים‬
‫או חוסם נמוכים)‪ :‬סובבו את נוב הפילטר (‪)FILTER‬‬
                                       ‫ימינה‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪71‬‬
                    ‫כרטיס קול רב‪-‬ערוצי‬          ‫‪.6‬‬
‫קונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬כולל כרטיס קול רב‪-‬ערוצי‬
‫ומובנה‪ ,‬המאפשר לנגן את המיקס ברמקולים עבור הקהל‬
‫(יציאת ‪ Master‬לרמקולים)‪ ,‬לנטר את הרצועה הבאה שאתם‬
‫מכינים אצלכם באוזניות (יציאת אוזניות) ולהשתמש‬
‫במיקרופון ו‪/‬או במכשיר המצויד ביציאת‪ Line Level‬כמקור‬
                                                ‫שמע‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪72‬‬
             ‫יציאת ‪ Master‬לרמקולים (יציאה ‪)2-1‬‬
‫את הרמקולים הפעילים יש לחבר לאחת משתי יציאות ה‪-‬‬
‫‪ Master‬לרמקולים‪ ,‬הנמצאות בחלקו האחורי של קונטרולר‬
                                               ‫הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪.‬‬




‫ניתן להשתמש בו‪-‬זמנית בשני הפורמטים של היציאות ‪-‬‬
‫לדוגמה‪ ,‬על ידי חיבור זוג יציאות למערכת הכריזה‪ ,‬וזוג‬
                             ‫יציאות שני לרמקולי ניטור‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪73‬‬
                         ‫יציאת אוזניות (יציאה ‪)4-3‬‬
    ‫את האוזניות יש לחבר לאחת משתי יציאות האוזניות‬
            ‫הנמצאות בחלקו הקדמי של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪.‬‬




‫כברירת מחדל‪ ,‬בכל פעם שמחברים את קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪,‬‬
‫יציאת האוזניות תוקצה ליציאה ‪ ,4-3‬כדי שתוכל לפעול עם‬
‫כל תוכנות הדי‪.‬ג'יי הקיימות בשוק — ובמיוחד עם‬
                           ‫®‪ DJUCED‬ו‪.Serato DJ Lite-‬‬


‫עם זאת‪ ,‬אם רוצים להשתמש ביציאת האוזניות של‬
‫קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי כדי להאזין למוזיקה במחשב באמצעות‬
‫‪ ,iTunes‬לדוגמה‪ ,‬צריך לנתב את יציאה ‪ 2-1‬ליציאת‬
‫שמתחת למד‬        ‫האוזניות‪ .‬לשם כך‪ ,‬יש ללחוץ על כפתור‬
                                  ‫ה‪ VU-‬של ‪.MASTER‬‬

                         ‫‪74‬‬
‫לא מומלץ לחבר שני זוגות אוזניות בו‪-‬זמנית (כלומר אחד‬
‫למחבר יציאת מיני‪-‬שקע ‪ 3.5‬מ"מ‪ ,‬ואחד למחבר יציאת‬
‫שקע ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ)‪ .‬אם לשני זוגות האוזניות אין אותה עכבה‪,‬‬
                         ‫יהיה להם ווליום שונה ביציאה‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪75‬‬
                                       ‫כניסת מיקרופון‬

‫את המיקרופון יש לחבר לכניסת המיקרופון הנמצאת בחלקו‬
   ‫האחורי של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ .‬כניסת המיקרופון מאוזנת‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪76‬‬
‫ניתן לחבר מיקרופון מאוזן או לא מאוזן‪ .‬היתרון של השימוש‬
‫במיקרופון מאוזן הוא שהוא נותן צליל טוב יותר‪ ,‬עם פחות‬
‫אפקטים של נשימה ורעשים אחרים‪ .‬מיקרופון מאוזן מפיק צליל‬
‫ברור וחזק יותר‪ ,‬עם פחות אפקטים של נשימה‪ .‬אם המיקרופון‬
‫המאוזן לא מחובר באמצעות כבל מאוזן‪ ,‬כבל המיקרופון יפגע‬
                              ‫באיכות הצליל של המיקרופון‪.‬‬




                      ‫כבל מאוזן‬

   ‫‪( Tip‬קצה)‬
   ‫‪( Ring‬טבעת)‬

   ‫‪( Sleeve‬שרוול)‬




                    ‫כבל לא מאוזן‬

   ‫‪( Tip‬קצה)‬


   ‫‪( Sleeve‬שרוול)‬




                         ‫‪77‬‬
                                   ‫תאימות‬      ‫‪.7‬‬

                         ‫‪USB MIDI/USB Audio‬‬

‫קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי מתחבר בשיטת "הכנס‪-‬הפעל"‪ ,‬ומסוגל‬
‫לפעול ללא מנהלי התקנים עם ‪ DJUCED‬בכל מחשב ‪ PC‬או‬
‫‪ ,Mac‬משום שהוא מקיים את התקנים של ‪ USB Audio‬ושל‬
                                          ‫‪.USB MIDI‬‬



               ‫‪ ASIO‬ולוח הבקרה של ®‪Windows‬‬

‫כדי להשתמש בקונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬עם ‪Serato‬‬
‫‪ ,DJ Lite‬יש להתקין את מנהלי ההתקנים של ‪ .ASIO‬מנהלי‬
                         ‫ההתקנים של ‪ ASIO‬זמינים כאן‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul‬‬
                                              ‫‪.set7/‬‬


‫אם משתמשים ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬ניתן גם להוריד את מנהלי‬
‫ההתקנים של ‪ ASIO‬כדי ליהנות מזמן השהיה מקוצר‬
                                       ‫במחשב שלכם‪.‬‬


‫מנהלי ההתקנים ‪ ASIO‬מגיעים עם לוח בקרה שנגיש בשורת‬
‫‪C:\Program‬‬   ‫\‪Files‬‬   ‫המשימות במחשב‪ ,‬או בספרייה‬
‫\‪ .DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2‬מלוח‬
‫הבקרה ניתן לכוונן הגדרות ‪ ASIO‬שונות‪ ,‬כמו גדלים של‬
                                       ‫באפר והשהיה‪.‬‬

                         ‫‪78‬‬
                              ‫כדי לכוונן הגדרות ‪:ASIO‬‬
      ‫‪ −‬הגדירו את גודל הבאפר של ‪ ASIO‬כ‪ 4-‬או ‪.8 ms‬‬
‫‪ −‬הפעילו את התוכנה (למשל‪ ,)DJUCED® :‬ובחרו את‬
‫מנהל ההתקן של )‪:DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO‬‬




‫מרגע שהתוכנה מתחילה להשתמש במנהל ההתקן ‪,ASIO‬‬
‫כבר אי אפשר לשנות הגדרות ‪ ASIO‬מלוח הבקרה‪ .‬מדובר‬
‫בתופעה תקינה לחלוטין‪ ,‬ופירוש הדבר הוא שמנהל ההתקן‬
                             ‫‪ ASIO‬נמצא בשימוש כרגע‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪79‬‬
‫באמצעות התוכנה‪ ,‬יש להאזין היטב כדי לזהות כל תקלה או‬
‫ארטיפקט בשמע (נקישות‪ ,‬פיצוצים) או כל בעיה מבחינת‬
‫השהיה‪ .‬במקרה של תקלות או ארטיפקטים‪ ,‬יש להגדיל את‬
                        ‫הבאפר כדי לפתור את הבעיות‪.‬‬


‫סגרו את התוכנה‪ ,‬וכווננו באפר ‪ ASIO‬לפי ערך אחד בכל‬
                                                 ‫פעם‪:‬‬
          ‫‪ −‬הקטינו את גודל הבאפר כדי לקצר השהיה‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬הגדילו את גודל הבאפר אם הבחנתם בתקלות שמע או‬
                                     ‫בארטיפקטים‪.‬‬


‫יש לחזור על ההליך עד למציאת גודל הבאפר המיטבי‬
                                       ‫למערכת שלכם‪.‬‬


                             ‫מנהלי ההתקנים זמינים כאן‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul‬‬
                                                 ‫‪set7/‬‬




                        ‫‪80‬‬
                                         ‫עדכון קושחה‬

‫קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי כולל מצב של עדכון קושחה אוטומטי‪ .‬לשם‬
‫כך יש להתקין את מנהלי ההתקנים של ‪ Hercules‬ולבצע את‬
  ‫ההוראות שבמסך‪ .‬עדכון הקושחה יתבצע באופן אוטומטי‪.‬‬


                              ‫מנהלי ההתקנים זמינים כאן‪:‬‬
 ‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul‬‬
                                                  ‫‪set7/‬‬


‫ניתן גם להגיע מלוח הבקרה למידע זה ולהציג את גרסאות‬
‫מנהלי ההתקנים המותקנות במחשב‪ ,‬בכרטיסייה ‪ABOUT‬‬
‫(אודות)‪ .‬יש להכין מידע זה מראש בעת פנייה לצוות‬
                         ‫התמיכה הטכנית של ‪.Hercules‬‬




                         ‫‪81‬‬
               ‫בדיקת קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי בלוח הבקרה‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬   ‫בחלק ‪( ABOUT‬אודות) בלוח הבקרה של‬
‫‪ ,Inpulse T7‬ניתן לבדוק את הסאונד‪ ,‬את פקדי ה‪ MIDI-‬ואת‬
‫התאורה של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ ,‬וגם את הפלטות הממונעות‪.‬‬


‫כדי לגשת ללוח הבקרה‪ ,‬יש לעבור לספרייה הבאה‪:‬‬
‫‪C:\Program Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console‬‬
                                        ‫\‪.Series\cpl2‬‬


                                      ‫‪ .1‬בדיקת שמע‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬   ‫כדי לבדוק אם ממשק השמע של קונטרולר‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬מפיק סאונד (מבלי להשתמש לשם כך בתוכנת‬
‫די‪.‬ג'יי)‪ ,‬יש להקליק על סמל הרמקול‪ .‬במהלך הבדיקה‪,‬‬
‫הסמל ישנה צבעו לירוק‪ ,‬והתוכנית תנגן צליל ביציאות ה‪-‬‬
                       ‫‪ Master‬של הרמקולים והאוזניות‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪82‬‬
                               ‫‪ .2‬בדיקת פקדי ‪MIDI‬‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬   ‫כדי לבדוק אם פקדי ה‪ MIDI-‬של קונטרולר‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬פועלים (מבלי להשתמש לשם כך בתוכנת‬
‫די‪.‬ג'יי)‪ ,‬ניתן לנסות להשתמש בכפתורים או בפקדים‬
‫האחרים שרוצים לבדוק‪ .‬אם סמל מחבר ‪ DIN‬הופך לירוק‪,‬‬
‫פירוש הדבר הוא שפקודת ה‪ MIDI-‬נקלטת כעת‪ ,‬ושהכפתור‬
                        ‫או הפקד האחר פועלים היטב‪.‬‬




                       ‫‪83‬‬
                                  ‫‪ .3‬בדיקת תאורה‬

‫כדי לבדוק אם הנורות של קונטרולר ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫פועלות (מבלי להשתמש לשם כך בתוכנת די‪.‬ג'יי)‪ ,‬ניתן‬
‫ללחוץ על סמל הנורה כדי להדליק את נורות הקונטרולר‪.‬‬
‫במהלך הבדיקה‪ ,‬הסמל ישנה צבעו לירוק‪ ,‬ונורות הקונטרולר‬
                                              ‫יידלקו‪.‬‬




‫ניתן גם להדליק את כל הנורות של קונטרולר ‪DJControl‬‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬בלחיצה בו‪-‬זמנית על הכפתורים ‪ IN‬ו‪OUT-‬‬
                                       ‫בשני הדקים‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪84‬‬
                             ‫‪ .4‬בדיקת פלטות ממונעות‬

‫כדי לבדוק אם הפלטות הממונעות של קונטרולר ‪DJControl‬‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬פועלות (מבלי להשתמש בתוכנת די‪.‬ג'יי לשם‬
‫כך)‪ ,‬ניתן להקליק על הסמל של פלטה ‪ 1‬או ‪ .2‬במהלך‬
‫הבדיקה‪ ,‬הסמלים של הפלטה המתאימה ושל מחבר ‪DIN‬‬
‫המתאים ישנו צבעם לירוק‪ ,‬והפלטה הממונעת תזוז (כלומר‪,‬‬
                               ‫תסתובב) על הקונטרולר‪.‬‬


                     ‫בדיקה של פלטה ממונעת מספר ‪:1‬‬




                     ‫בדיקה של פלטה ממונעת מספר ‪:2‬‬




                        ‫‪85‬‬
                               ‫מצב הדגמה‬        ‫‪.8‬‬
‫מצב זה זמין כשמחברים את קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי למקור חשמל‬
‫ולמקור חשמל בחיבור ‪ USB‬ללא מחשב‪ .‬במצב זה‬
‫משתמשים בעיקר בחנויות‪ .‬במצב כזה‪ ,‬קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי לא‬
‫מתפקד‪ ,‬אלא פועל במצב הדגמה‪ :‬רצף הדגמה‪ ,‬שמדליק‬
          ‫את האורות השונים בקונטרולר‪ ,‬יפעל שוב ושוב‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪86‬‬
                              ‫שאלות נפוצות‬       ‫‪.9‬‬

              ‫לא יוצא שום סאונד מהאוזניות‪.‬‬        ‫‪.1‬‬

‫יש לוודא שהאוזניות מחוברות בצד הקדמי של קונטרולר‬
‫הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ ,‬משום שקונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי מצויד בכרטיס קול רב‪-‬‬
‫ערוצי‪ ,‬המוגדר מראש לפעולה עם ®‪ DJUCED‬ועם ‪Serato‬‬
                                              ‫‪.DJ Lite‬‬
‫כברירת מחדל‪ ,‬שני כפתורי הניטור פעילים בעת הפעלת‬
‫התוכנה בפעם הראשונה‪ .‬לאחר מכן‪ ,‬ניתן לבחור את הדק‬
     ‫שלו רוצים להאזין מהאוזניות או ללחוץ על כפתור‬
‫שמתחת למד ה‪ UV-‬של ‪ MASTER‬כדי להאזין לתוצאות‬
                                               ‫המיקס‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪87‬‬
 ‫שומעים סאונד מעוות או חלש מדי באוזניות‪.‬‬              ‫‪.2‬‬

‫יש לוודא שהאוזניות כוללות מחבר ‪( TRS‬אוזניות רגילות)‬
                     ‫ולא מחבר ‪( TRRS‬אוזניות ‪ +‬מיקרופון)‪.‬‬


        ‫‪( Tip‬קצה)‬                       ‫‪( Tip‬קצה)‬
     ‫‪( Ring‬טבעת)‬                        ‫‪( Ring‬טבעת)‬
                                        ‫‪( Ring‬טבעת)‬
    ‫‪( Sleeve‬שרוול)‬
                                         ‫‪( Sleeve‬שרוול)‬




‫‪DJControl‬‬       ‫מחברי ‪ TRRS‬אינם תואמים לקונטרולר‬
                                              ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬




                           ‫‪88‬‬
             ‫לא יוצא שום סאונד מהרמקולים‪.‬‬       ‫‪.3‬‬

‫יש לוודא שהרמקולים מחוברים למחברי ה‪ RCA-‬או ‪XLR‬‬
‫בגב קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ ,‬משום שקונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי מצויד‬
‫בכרטיס קול רב‪-‬ערוצי‪ ,‬המוגדר מראש לפעולה עם‬
                         ‫®‪ DJUCED‬ועם ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬


‫כדי לבדוק (בלי להשתמש בתוכנת די‪.‬ג'יי) אם ממשק השמע‬
‫של קונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬מפיק סאונד‪ ,‬ניתן‬
‫להציג את לוח הבקרה של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ .‬יש להקליק על‬
‫הכרטיסייה ‪( ABOUT‬אודות) ולאחר מכן על סמל הרמקול‪.‬‬
               ‫כשמתנגן סאונד‪ ,‬הסמל משנה צבעו לירוק‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪89‬‬
‫לא יוצא שום סאונד מהרמקולים של המחשב‬              ‫‪.4‬‬
                                        ‫הנישא‪.‬‬
‫קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי מצויד בכרטיס קול רב‪-‬ערוצי‪ ,‬המוגדר‬
‫מראש‪ .‬כדי להשתמש ברמקולים המשולבים במחשב‬
                                             ‫הנישא‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED®-‬יש לעבור אל ההגדרות ולסמן את‬
‫‪SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER‬‬               ‫האפשרות‬
   ‫‪( SPEAKERS‬לשלוח אות ראשי לרמקולי המחשב)‪.‬‬




‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬יש לעבור אל ההגדרות‪ ,‬לפתוח את‬
‫הכרטיסייה ‪( Audio‬שמע) ולסמן את האפשרות ‪Use‬‬
‫המחשב‬    ‫ברמקולי‬   ‫(להשתמש‬   ‫‪Laptop‬‬   ‫‪Speakers‬‬
                                        ‫הנישא)‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪90‬‬
‫לא יוצא שום סאונד מהרמקולים של המחשב‬               ‫‪.5‬‬
                             ‫הנישא או מהאוזניות‪.‬‬
‫כברירת מחדל‪ ,‬הסאונד מגיע מיציאת ה‪ Master-‬לרמקולים‬
‫ומיציאת האוזניות‪ .‬לכן‪ ,‬זו אינה בעיה אם אין סאונד‬
                                     ‫מהמחשב הנישא‪.‬‬


      ‫כדי להשתמש ברמקולים המשולבים במחשב הנישא‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED®-‬יש לעבור אל ההגדרות ולסמן את‬
‫‪SEND MASTER TO COMPUTER‬‬                ‫האפשרות‬
‫‪( SPEAKERS‬לשלוח אות ראשי לרמקולי המחשב)‪ .‬יש‬
‫לחבר את האוזניות לקונטרולר ‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬




                        ‫‪91‬‬
‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬יש לעבור אל ההגדרות‪ ,‬לפתוח את‬
‫הכרטיסייה ‪( Audio‬שמע) ולסמן את האפשרות ‪Use‬‬
‫המחשב‬    ‫ברמקולי‬   ‫(להשתמש‬     ‫‪Laptop‬‬    ‫‪Speakers‬‬
‫הנישא)‪ .‬יש לחבר את האוזניות לקונטרולר ‪DJControl‬‬
                                        ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬




‫כדי לבדוק (בלי להשתמש בתוכנת די‪.‬ג'יי) אם ממשק השמע‬
‫של קונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬מפיק סאונד‪ ,‬ניתן‬
‫להציג את לוח הבקרה של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ .‬יש להקליק על‬
‫הכרטיסייה ‪( ABOUT‬אודות) ולאחר מכן על סמל הרמקול‪.‬‬
               ‫כשמתנגן סאונד‪ ,‬הסמל משנה צבעו לירוק‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪92‬‬
‫אני נתקל בבעיות של איכות הסאונד עם‬                      ‫‪.6‬‬
                                     ‫®‪.Windows‬‬

                ‫עוצמת הקול של הרצועה המתנגנת חלשה מדי‬

‫עוצמת הקול הראשית של תוכנת הדי‪.‬ג'יי לא תלויה בפקדי עוצמת‬
‫הקול בקונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ .‬לכן‪ ,‬כל עוד עוצמת הקול של תוכנת‬
 ‫הדי‪.‬ג'יי חלשה‪ ,‬גם עוצמת הקול של יציאת ‪ Master‬תהיה חלשה‪.‬‬


‫יש לבדוק את עוצמת הקול של תוכנת הדי‪.‬ג'יי ולהגביר אותה‬
                                             ‫במידת הצורך‪.‬‬


‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,DJUCED-‬השתמש בלחצן עוצמת הקול שנמצא בסרגל‬
                          ‫בחלק הימני העליון של החלון‪.‬‬




‫‪ −‬ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬השתמש בלחצן עוצמת הקול שנמצא‬
                    ‫בסרגל בחלק הימני העליון של החלון‪.‬‬




                          ‫‪93‬‬
                     ‫עוצמת הקול באוזניות שלי נמוכה מדי‬

‫ב‪ ,Serato DJ Lite-‬עברו אל ההגדרות‪ ,‬פתחו את הכרטיסייה‬
‫‪( Audio‬שמע)‪ ,‬ובטלו את הסימון (כלומר‪ ,‬את הבחירה)‬
‫באפשרות ‪( Use Laptop Speakers‬להשתמש ברמקולי‬
                                     ‫המחשב הנישא)‪.‬‬




                        ‫‪94‬‬
‫‪Use‬‬   ‫כדי להשאיר את הסימון (כלומר‪ ,‬את הבחירה) בתיבה‬
‫‪( Laptop Speakers‬להשתמש ברמקולי המחשב הנישא)‪ ,‬יש‬
‫להגדיר את כרטיס הקול המובנה של המחשב בתור "רמקולי‬
                                                   ‫מחשב"‪:‬‬
                      ‫‪ .1‬סגרו את התוכנה ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫‪ .2‬עברו להגדרות של ‪ ,Windows‬ועברו אל ‪( System‬מערכת)‬
                                 ‫ואז אל ‪( Sound‬צליל)‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬תחת ‪( Output‬פלט)‪ ,‬יש לבחור את כרטיס הקול המובנה של‬
‫המחשב‪ .‬אין להגדיר שוב את קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי שלכם בתור‬
                                                ‫הפלט‪.‬‬




‫ייתכן ש‪ Windows®-‬הגדירה את קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי בתור כרטיס‬
‫‪Use‬‬   ‫הקול של ®‪ .Windows‬אם תשאירו הגדרה זו‪ ,‬ההגדרה‬
‫‪( Laptop Speakers‬להשתמש ברמקולי המחשב הנישא) תוכל‬
‫לנגן את יציאת ‪ Master‬ביציאת ‪ 4‬הערוצים של קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‬
                                 ‫(היציאה ‪ + Master‬אוזניות)‪.‬‬




                           ‫‪95‬‬
                                       ‫הסאונד לא ברור‬

                                         ‫ב‪:DJUCED®-‬‬
‫מומלץ להשתמש בהתקן שמע מסוג ‪ .ASIO‬עם מכשיר‬
‫‪ ,WASAPI‬איכות הסאונד בדרך כלל טובה‪ .‬עם זאת‪,‬‬
      ‫ההשהיה עשויה לגדול‪ ,‬וייתכן שהצליל לא יהיה ברור‪.‬‬


‫עברו להגדרות‪ ,‬לחצו על הכרטיסייה ‪( Audio‬שמע)‪ ,‬ובחרו ב‪-‬‬
‫)‪ DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO‬בתור ‪Audio device‬‬
                                         ‫(התקן השמע)‪.‬‬




                                     ‫ב‪:Serato DJ Lite-‬‬
‫עברו להגדרות‪ ,‬פתחו את הכרטיסייה ‪( Audio‬שמע)‪ ,‬ובטלו את‬
‫הסימון (כלומר‪ ,‬את הבחירה) באפשרות ‪Use Laptop Speakers‬‬
                       ‫(להשתמש ברמקולי המחשב הנישא)‪.‬‬




                         ‫‪96‬‬
‫לא הצלחתי לחבר רמקולי מולטימדיה ל‪-‬‬              ‫‪.7‬‬
                     ‫‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬    ‫אם מחברי הרמקולים שונים מהמחברים של‬
‫‪ ,Inpulse T7‬ניתן להשתמש במתאם כפול מ‪ RCA-‬למיני‪-‬‬
‫שקע ‪ 3.5‬מ"מ (לא כלול) כדי לחבר רמקולי מולטימדיה‪,‬‬
‫במתאם כפול מ‪ XLR-‬לשקע ‪ 6.35‬מ"מ (לא כלול) כדי לחבר‬
‫רמקולי כריזה‪ ,‬או בכל פורמט מתאם אחר המתאים‬
                                 ‫לרמקולים שברשותכם‪.‬‬
‫ניתן גם לחבר את הרמקולים ליציאת האוזניות ולנתב את‬
‫שמתחת‬          ‫יציאה ‪ 1-2‬ליציאה ‪ ,3-4‬בלחיצה על כפתור‬
                               ‫למד ה‪ VU-‬של ‪.MASTER‬‬

‫האם קונטרולר ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬               ‫‪.8‬‬
                   ‫תואם ל‪ iPad-‬או ל‪?iPhone-‬‬
‫לא‪ ,‬קונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬אינו תואם ל‪ iPad-‬או‬
            ‫ל‪ .iPhone-‬הוא פועל רק עם מחשבי ‪ PC‬או ‪.Mac‬‬




                          ‫‪97‬‬
‫כיצד ניתן לחבר את קונטרולר ‪DJControl‬‬           ‫‪.9‬‬
‫ליציאת‬   ‫‪ USB-C‬או‬       ‫ליציאת‬    ‫‪Inpulse T7‬‬
                             ‫‪?Thunderbolt 3‬‬
‫ניתן לחבר את קונטרולר ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬ליציאת‬
    ‫‪ USB-C‬או ליציאת ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬בשלוש דרכים שונות‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬באמצעות מתאם (‪[ USB-C‬זכר] או ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬ל‪-‬‬
‫‪[ USB-A‬נקבה]) בין המחשב לבין קונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪.‬‬
‫לידיעתך‪ ,‬מתאמים מסוימים לא יפעלו כראוי‪ ,‬משום‬
               ‫שהם מנתקים חלק מאספקת החשמל‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬באמצעות תחנת עגינה (‪ USB-C‬או ‪ )Thunderbolt 3‬בין‬
‫המחשב לקונטרולר הדי‪.‬ג'יי‪ .‬יש לוודא שלתחנת העגינה‬
‫יש אספקת חשמל ייעודית‪ ,‬משום שייתכן שתחנת עגינה‬
‫המקבלת חשמל רק דרך יציאת ה‪( USB-C-‬או‬
            ‫‪ )Thunderbolt 3‬לא תקבל מספיק חשמל‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬על‪-‬ידי החלפה של כבל ה‪ USB-‬הכלול בכבל ‪ USB-C‬או‬
                 ‫בכבל ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬ל‪.USB-B 2.0-‬‬




                        ‫‪98‬‬
       ‫תמיכה טכנית‬
https://support.hercules.com




            99
                                               ‫סימנים מסחריים‬
‫®‪ Intel‬ו‪ Intel Core™-‬הם סימנים מסחריים או סימנים מסחריים רשומים של ‪Intel‬‬
                                                              ‫‪.Corporation‬‬
‫‪ Microsoft® Windows® 10/11‬הוא סימן מסחרי או סימן מסחרי רשום של ‪Microsoft‬‬
                                   ‫‪ Corporation‬בארה"ב ו‪/‬או במדינות אחרות‪.‬‬
‫®‪ Mac‬ו‪ macOS®-‬הם סימנים מסחריים של ‪ ,Apple Inc.‬הרשומים בארה"ב ובמדינות‬
                                                                    ‫אחרות‪.‬‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Lite ,Serato‬ו‪ Serato DJ Pro-‬הם סימנים מסחריים רשומים של‬
                                         ‫‪.Serato Audio Research Limited‬‬
‫המותג ‪ DJUCED‬והאלמנטים הגרפיים של ‪ DJUCED‬הם הרכוש של ‪Guillemot‬‬
                                                              ‫‪.Corporation‬‬
           ‫‪ ASIO‬הוא סימן מסחרי של ‪.Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH‬‬
‫כל יתר הסימנים המסחריים והשמות המסחריים מוכרים בזאת במסמך זה‪ ,‬והם רכושם‬
‫של בעליהם השונים‪ .‬האיורים אינם מחייבים‪ .‬התוכן‪ ,‬העיצובים והמפרטים שבמסמך זה‬
                ‫נתונים לשינוי ללא הודעה מוקדמת‪ ,‬ועשויים להשתנות לפי המדינה‪.‬‬




                                  ‫‪100‬‬
                                               ‫זכויות יוצרים‬
‫אין לשכפל‪ ,‬לסכם‪ ,‬לשדר או לתמלל שום חלק ממדריך זה‪ ,‬לאחסנו‬
‫במערכת לאחזור מידע או לתרגמו לשום שפה או שפת מחשב שהיא‪ ,‬בשום‬
‫צורה או בשום אמצעי שהוא‪ ,‬בין אם אלקטרוני‪ ,‬מכני‪ ,‬מגנטי‪ ,‬ידני‪ ,‬באמצעות‬
‫צילום‪ ,‬הקלטה או בדרך אחרת‪ ,‬ללא הסכמה כתובה ומפורשת מאת‬
                                          ‫‪.Guillemot Corporation S.A.‬‬




                               ‫‪101‬‬
‫של‬     ‫קצה‬       ‫למשתמשי‬           ‫הרישיון‬          ‫הסכם‬
            ‫®‪ DJUCED‬ושל ‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫נא לקרוא היטב את הסכם הרישיון המופיע בעת ההתקנה של ®‪DJUCED‬‬
                                          ‫ושל ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬




                          ‫‪102‬‬
‫دليل المستخدم‬
                             ‫جدول المحتويات‬
‫محتويات الصندوق ‪6.....................................‬‬                         ‫‪.1‬‬

‫‪6 ....................................... DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

‫‪8 ........ DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition‬‬

‫المواصفات الفنية ‪10 .....................................‬‬                      ‫‪.2‬‬

‫الميزات ‪13 ................................................‬‬                    ‫‪.3‬‬

‫نظرة عامة ‪13 ..............................................................‬‬

‫األقراص الدوارة ‪14 .......................................................‬‬

‫المزج‪32 ....................................................................‬‬

‫الموصّ الت ‪43 ..............................................................‬‬

‫التركيب ‪46 ................................................‬‬                    ‫‪.4‬‬

‫التوصيالت ‪46 ..............................................................‬‬

‫تنزيل البرنامج‪49 ..........................................................‬‬

‫ارفع إيقاع مزيجك ‪54 ....................................‬‬                       ‫‪.5‬‬

‫أوضاع ولوحات ‪54 ........................................................‬‬

‫إضافة خدش‪70 ............................................................‬‬

‫المرشحات ‪71 ..............................................................‬‬
‫بطاقة صوت متعددة القنوات ‪72 .........................‬‬                       ‫‪.6‬‬

‫مخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت (المخرج ‪73 ............... )2-1‬‬

‫مخرج سماعات الرأس (المخرج ‪74 ............................. )4-3‬‬

‫مدخل الميكروفون ‪76 .....................................................‬‬

‫التوافق ‪78 ................................................‬‬                 ‫‪.7‬‬

‫‪78 ................................... USB MIDI / USB Audio‬‬

‫لوحة تحكم ‪ ASIO‬و®‪78 ...............................Windows‬‬

‫تحديث البرنامج الثابت ‪81 ................................................‬‬

‫اختبار وحدة تحكم ‪ DJ‬في لوحة التحكم ‪82 ............................‬‬

‫وضع العرض التوضيحي ‪86 .............................‬‬                         ‫‪.8‬‬

‫األسئلة الشائعة ‪87 ........................................‬‬                 ‫‪.9‬‬
‫‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬هي وحدة تحكم بميزات كاملة‬
‫صا لمساعدتك على إتقان التعامل مع األقراص الدوارة‬
                                               ‫تصمم خصو ً‬
‫مزودتين بمحرك‬
          ‫ّ‬   ‫المصنوعة من الفينيل بفضل أسطوانتين فونوغرافيتين‬
  ‫وفيديوهات تعليمية وتكامل برنامج ‪ DJUCED‬و‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬




 ‫صا لـ ‪Serato‬‬
            ‫تتضمن ‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬ترخي ً‬
                             ‫‪ ،DJ Lite‬وليس ‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬
            ‫يمكن استخدام ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬من دون أي حد زمني‪.‬‬
‫عند تثبيت ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬بدالً من ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬ستعمل‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Pro‬مع ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬لديك طوال الفترة‬
‫التجريبية‪ .‬في نهاية هذه الفترة التجريبية‪ ،‬إذا كنت ترغب في‬
‫االستمرار في استخدام ‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬فيجب عليك شراء ترخيص‬
                                            ‫‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬



                             ‫‪4‬‬
‫تتوافر مجموعة كبيرة من الفيديوهات التعليمية لمساعدتك على‬
‫‪Hercules DJControl‬‬        ‫التعرّ ف على المزج مع وحدة التحكم‬
                                               ‫‪:Inpulse T7‬‬
               ‫‪( Hercules DJ Academy −‬باللغة اإلنجليزية)‪:‬‬
  ‫‪.‬‬       ‫‪ o‬ضمن ‪ ،DJUCED‬عن طريق النقر على أيقونة‬
                    ‫‪ o‬في موقع ‪ DJUCED‬على الويب‪.‬‬
‫(باللغة‬    ‫‪YouTube‬‬      ‫على‬   ‫‪Hercules‬‬    ‫‪Audio‬‬     ‫‪ −‬قناة‬
                                            ‫اإلنجليزية)‪.‬‬
‫‪ ،The DJ Coach −‬إلى جانب دورات تدريبية يُقدِّمها‬
      ‫‪ DJ HAPA‬على ‪( Serato DJ Lite‬باللغة اإلنجليزية)‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪5‬‬
           ‫محتويات الصندوق‬             ‫‪.1‬‬

          ‫‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

     ‫‪Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 −‬‬
‫‪ −‬أسطوانتان من الفينيل (‪ 7‬بوصات‪ 17.8/‬سم)‬
                     ‫‪ −‬أسطوانتان من اللباد‬
                      ‫‪ −‬كابل ‪ُ USB‬مضفّر‬
                   ‫‪ −‬كابل طاقة قابل لإلزالة‬
                             ‫‪ −‬محول طاقة‬
                          ‫‪ −‬دليل التعليمات‬
                           ‫‪ −‬نشرة الضمان‬




           ‫‪6‬‬
‫يمكنك إزالة األغشية الواقية التي تغطي مقاييس شدة الصوت على‬
‫وحدة التحكم ‪ .Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬يمكنك أيضً ا‬
‫ترك األغشية الواقية في مكانها؛ ألنها ال تؤثر في استخدام مقاييس‬
                                                  ‫شدة الصوت‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪7‬‬
DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition




                8
   ‫‪Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7 Premium Edition −‬‬

          ‫‪ −‬أسطوانتان من الفينيل (‪ 7‬بوصات‪ 17.8/‬سم)‬
                                ‫‪ −‬أسطوانتان من اللباد‬
                        ‫‪ −‬أسطوانتان رقيقتان من اللباد‬
                                  ‫‪ −‬كابل ‪ USB‬مُ ضفّر‬
                              ‫‪ −‬كابل طاقة قابل لإلزالة‬
                                        ‫‪ −‬محول طاقة‬
                                         ‫‪ −‬حقيبة حمل‬
                                     ‫‪ −‬دليل التعليمات‬
                                      ‫‪ −‬نشرة الضمان‬




‫يمكنك إزالة األغشية الواقية التي تغطي مقاييس شدة‬
‫‪Hercules DJControl‬‬       ‫الصوت على وحدة التحكم‬
‫‪ .Inpulse T7 Premium Edition‬يمكنك أيضً ا ترك األغشية‬
‫الواقية في مكانها؛ ألنها ال تؤثر في استخدام مقاييس شدة‬
                                              ‫الصوت‪.‬‬




                          ‫‪9‬‬
                              ‫المواصفات الفنية‬            ‫‪.2‬‬
                                                ‫متطلبات النظام‪:‬‬
                                            ‫‪:DJUCED −‬‬
       ‫‪https://www.djuced.com/downloaddjuced/‬‬
                                        ‫(باللغة اإلنجليزية)‬
                                       ‫‪:Serato DJ Lite −‬‬
 ‫‪https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads?systemreq‬‬
  ‫‪( uirements#system-requirements‬باللغة اإلنجليزية)‬

                                            ‫مخرجات األصوات‪:‬‬
                                 ‫‪ o‬الدقة = ‪ 24‬بت‬
                    ‫‪ o‬معدل العينة = ‪ 44.1‬كيلوهرتز‬

           ‫مخرجات ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت (المخرج ‪ )2-1‬عبر‪:‬‬
                                         ‫‪ −‬موصلين ‪:RCA‬‬
‫‪ o‬الحد األقصى لطاقة اإلخراج = ‪ 7‬وحدات ديسيبل عند‬
                                    ‫‪ 1‬كيلو أوم‬
                                ‫‪ −‬موصالن ‪( XLR‬متوازنان)‪:‬‬
‫‪ o‬الحد األقصى لطاقة اإلخراج = ‪ 13‬وحدة ديسيبل عند‬
                                      ‫‪ 1‬كيلو أوم‬

‫مخرج سماعات الرأس (المخرج ‪ )4-3‬عبر موصل مقبس إستريو صغير‬
                  ‫بمقاس ‪ 3.5‬مم وموصل مقبس إستريو بمقاس ‪:6.35‬‬
‫‪ o‬الحد األقصى لطاقة اإلخراج = ‪ 5‬وحدات ديسيبل لـ ‪32‬‬
                              ‫أوم عند ‪ 1‬كيلوهرتز‬

      ‫إدخال الميكروفون عبر موصل مقبس بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم (متوازن)‬

                            ‫‪10‬‬
                        ‫مصدر طاقة‬
      ‫‪ −‬ال تستخدم سوى مصدر الطاقة الموضَّح في دليل المستخدم‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ال تستخدم سوى مصدر الطاقة الذي يأتي بجهد الشبكة وترددها‬
                 ‫المُ وضَّحين على لوحة تصنيف مصدر الطاقة‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪11‬‬
                 ‫معلومات تتعلق بمصدر الطاقة‬
 ‫الوحدة‬               ‫القيمة‬              ‫المعلومات المنشورة‬
                 ‫‪GUILLEMOT‬‬               ‫اسم الشركة المصنِّعة أو‬
              ‫‪CORPORATION S.A.‬‬               ‫العالمة التجارية‬
            ‫‪414 196 758 R.C.S. Vannes‬‬      ‫رقم العمل التجاري‬
             ‫‪2 Rue du Chêne Héleuc‬‬                ‫العنوان‬
                 ‫‪56910 Carentoir‬‬
                      ‫فرنسا‬
                 ‫‪A481-1852590D‬‬                ‫معرِّ ّ ف الطراز‬
  ‫فولت‬            ‫من ‪ 100‬إلى ‪240‬‬               ‫جهد اإلدخال‬
  ‫هرتز‬             ‫من ‪ 50‬إلى ‪60‬‬          ‫تردد التيار المتردد عند‬
                                                ‫اإلدخال‬
‫فولت تيار‬             ‫‪18.5‬‬                    ‫جهد اإلخراج‬
  ‫مباشر‬
  ‫أمبير‬                ‫‪2.6‬‬                    ‫تيار اإلخراج‬
  ‫واط‬                 ‫‪47.9‬‬                    ‫قدرة اإلخراج‬
   ‫‪%‬‬                  ‫‪87.8‬‬               ‫متوسط الكفاءة النشطة‬
   ‫‪%‬‬                  ‫‪87.8‬‬                 ‫الكفاءة عند التحميل‬
                                           ‫المنخفض (‪)%10‬‬
  ‫واط‬                 ‫‪0.10‬‬               ‫استهالك الطاقة من دون‬
                                                 ‫حمل‬




                               ‫‪12‬‬
                                            ‫الميزات‬       ‫‪.3‬‬

                                                   ‫نظرة عامة‬




                          ‫‪ .1‬أسطوانة فونوغرافية مزوّ دة بمحرك‬
                 ‫‪ .2‬أزرار النقل (‪)Shift ،Sync ،Cue ،Play‬‬
                          ‫‪ .3‬أدوات التحكم في ‪)Loop( Loop‬‬
‫‪ .4‬أدوات التحكم في اختيار المقطع (‪،Load ،Browser‬‬
                                        ‫‪)Prep./Assist.‬‬
                         ‫‪ .5‬أداة تالشي اإليقاع (‪)Pitch fader‬‬
                                        ‫‪ .6‬اللوحات واألوضاع‬
                                           ‫‪ .7‬أوضاع التشغيل‬
‫‪ .8‬المراقبة ومستويات الصوت (‪ Master‬وسماعات الرأس‬
                     ‫والميكروفون) و‪Beatmatch Guide‬‬
                         ‫‪ .9‬قسم المزج (‪)Filter ،EQ ،Gain‬‬
‫‪ .10‬أداة المزج (أداة التداخل التدريجي‪ ،‬أدوات خفض مستوى الصوت)‬
                                                 ‫‪ .11‬التأثيرات‬


                              ‫‪13‬‬
                                               ‫األقراص الدوارة‬
                            ‫‪ .1‬أسطوانة فونوغرافية مزوّ دة بمحرك‬




‫المزودة بمحرك‬
        ‫ّ‬     ‫أسطوانة من اللباد‪ :‬توضع بين األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
‫وأسطوانة الفينيل‪ .‬إنها تحمي أسطوانة الفينيل من االحتكاك باألسطوانة‬
          ‫الفونوغرافية‪ ،‬كما تحد من االهتزازات عند تشغيل األسطوانة‪.‬‬




 ‫يجب عليك دائ ًما التأكد من وضع األسطوانة من اللباد على األسطوانة‬
            ‫الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك قبل تركيب أسطوانة الفينيل‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪14‬‬
‫أسطوانة الفينيل‪ :‬تتيح لك إضافة صوت خربشة‪ ،‬وتسريع التشغيل أو‬
                                    ‫إبطاءه‪ ،‬والتحرك ضمن المسار‪.‬‬
‫إن الخط الموجود على ملصق أسطوانة الفينيل هو نقطة مرجعية (أي‬
                                     ‫عالمة) للخلط وإضافة الخدش‪.‬‬


                          ‫يعتمد تنفيذ اإلجراء على المعيارين اآلتيين‪:‬‬
                                ‫‪ −‬تشغيل المقطع أو إيقافه مؤقتًا؛‬
‫المكان الذي تلمس فيه أسطوانة الفينيل (األعلى )‪ )top‬أو‬          ‫‪−‬‬
                                          ‫الحلقة (‪.)ring‬‬


                       ‫أعلى‬



‫حلقة‬




                              ‫‪15‬‬
 ‫إجراءات أسطوانات الفينيل مع ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪:Serato DJ Pro‬‬


                      ‫أسطوانة فونوغرافية‬       ‫التشغيل‪/‬اإليقاف‬
    ‫زر ‪SHIFT‬‬
                          ‫مزودة بمحرك‬
                                  ‫ّ‬               ‫المؤقت‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                     ‫أعلى‬                 ‫تشغيل‬
                          ‫إضافة خدش‬
‫الضغط مع االستمرار‬         ‫أعلى‪/‬حلقة‬               ‫تشغيل‬
                 ‫التحرك سريعًا ضمن المقطع‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                     ‫حلقة‬                 ‫تشغيل‬
                     ‫تسريع التشغيل أو إبطاؤه‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                  ‫أعلى‪/‬حلقة‬            ‫إيقاف مؤقت‬
                     ‫تحرك ببطء ضمن المقطع‬
‫الضغط مع االستمرار‬         ‫أعلى‪/‬حلقة‬            ‫إيقاف مؤقت‬
                 ‫التحرك سريعًا ضمن المقطع‬




                              ‫‪16‬‬
               ‫إجراءات أسطوانات الفينيل باستخدام ‪:DJUCED‬‬


                      ‫أسطوانة فونوغرافية‬       ‫التشغيل‪/‬اإليقاف‬
    ‫زر ‪SHIFT‬‬
                          ‫مزوّ دة بمحرك‬           ‫المؤقت‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                     ‫أعلى‬                 ‫تشغيل‬
                          ‫إضافة خدش‬
‫الضغط مع االستمرار‬         ‫أعلى‪/‬حلقة‬               ‫تشغيل‬
                 ‫التحرك سريعًا ضمن المقطع‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                     ‫حلقة‬                 ‫تشغيل‬
                     ‫تسريع التشغيل أو إبطاؤه‬
        ‫‪-‬‬                     ‫حلقة‬              ‫إيقاف مؤقت‬
                     ‫تحرك ببطء ضمن المقطع‬




                              ‫‪17‬‬
‫أسطوانة فونوغرافية مزوّ دة بمحرك‪ :‬تقوم بتشغيل أسطوانة الفينيل التي‬
‫تتحكم في تشغيل المقطع وسرعة المقطع وفقًا لمجموعة اإليقاع التي تم‬
                                            ‫ضبطها مع أداة تالشي اإليقاع‪.‬‬


‫عند تمكين وظيفة ‪ ،Beatmatch Guide‬تشير أدلة ‪BEAT ALIGN‬‬
‫المرئية إلى االتجاه الذي تحتاج أن تدير إليه حلقة (أي حافة) األسطوانة‬
‫الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك من أجل محاذاة شبكات اإليقاع للمقطعَين‪.‬‬
         ‫عند عدم إضاءة السه َمين األحمرين‪ ،‬تتم محاذاة شبكات اإليقاع‪.‬‬


‫للحصول على مزيد من المعلومات حول وظيفة ‪،Beatmatch Guide‬‬
                               ‫يُرجى قراءة قسم ‪.Beatmatch Guide‬‬




       ‫ليس من الممكن تعطيل التشغيل اآللي لألسطوانات الفونوغرافية‪.‬‬




 ‫المزودة بمحرك‪ ،‬تجنب اإلمساك‬
                       ‫ّ‬     ‫‪ -‬عند دوران األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
     ‫بها بيدك عند إيقافها لفترة طويلة للغاية حتى ال يتلف نظام التشغيل‪.‬‬
 ‫عند وضع أسطوانة الفينيل على األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة‬             ‫‪-‬‬

 ‫بمحرك‪ ،‬ال تضغط عليها بالقوة‪ .‬وإال ستخاطر بإتالف مركز أسطوانة‬
                                                               ‫الفينيل‪.‬‬




                                    ‫‪18‬‬
                                              ‫‪ .2‬أزرار النقل‬




                                   ‫‪ :SHIFT‬تحكم مجمع‪ .‬فمثالً‪:‬‬
‫‪ :)KEYLOCK) RANGE + SHIFT −‬لقفل المفتاح الموسيقي‬
                                                 ‫للمقطع‪.‬‬
‫‪ :IN + SHIFT −‬في ®‪ ، DJUCED‬لتقسيم حجم حلقة التكرار‬
                                       ‫النشطة على اثنين‪.‬‬


‫‪ :SYNC‬لتمكين المزامنة التلقائية لقيم ‪( BPM‬النبضات لكل دقيقة)‬
                                           ‫لمقطعين أو تعطيلها‪.‬‬
                                    ‫‪: SYNC + SHIFT −‬‬
‫‪ o‬في ‪ :DJUCED‬تجعل لوح القرص الدوار لوح المزامنة‬
                            ‫الرئيس (‪.)Master Sync‬‬
 ‫‪ o‬في ‪ :Serato DJ Lite‬تعطل المزامنة على القرص الدوار‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪19‬‬
‫‪ :CUE‬تدخل نقطة ‪ Cue‬في المقطع لتعريف لحظة معينة‪ ،‬أو تحرك خط‬
                                    ‫تشغيل التسجيل لمكان نقطة ‪.Cue‬‬
        ‫‪ −‬إيقاف مقطع مؤقتًا‪ :‬يدخل نقطة ‪ Cue‬حيث توقف المقطع‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬تشغيل المقطع‪ :‬يوقف تشغيل المقطع ويحرك خط تشغيل التسجيل‬
                                              ‫إلى نقطة ‪.Cue‬‬
‫‪ o‬في ‪ ،DJUCED‬إذا لم يتم تحديد نقطة ‪ ،Cue‬فإن الضغط‬
‫على ‪ CUE‬يوقف التشغيل ويضع نقطة ‪ Cue‬في رأس‬
                                                ‫التشغيل‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬إذا لم يتم تحديد نقطة ‪ ،Cue‬فإن‬
‫الضغط على ‪ CUE‬يوقف التشغيل ويضع نقطة ‪ Cue‬في‬
                                            ‫بداية المقطع‪.‬‬
‫‪ :PLAY + CUE −‬يحرك رأس التشغيل إلى نقطة ‪ Cue‬ويشغل‬
                                        ‫المقطع من تلك النقطة‪.‬‬
                                           ‫‪:CUE + SHIFT −‬‬
‫‪ o‬في ‪ :DJUCED‬يحرك رأس التشغيل إلى بداية المقطع‪،‬‬
                                         ‫ويوقف التشغيل‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬في ‪ :Serato DJ Lite‬ينقل رأس التشغيل إلى بداية المقطع‬
                                           ‫ويبدأ التشغيل‪.‬‬


               ‫التشغيل‪/‬اإليقاف المؤقت‪ :‬يشغل المقطع أو يوقفه مؤقتًا‪.‬‬
‫‪ :PLAY + SHIFT −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬ينقل رأس التشغيل‬
                ‫إلى نقطة ‪ Cue‬ويشغل المقطع من هذه العالمة‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪20‬‬
                                ‫‪ .3‬أدوات التحكم في حلقة التكرار‬




                                            ‫مشفِّّر ‪:AUTOLOOP‬‬
     ‫‪ −‬الضغط على المشفِّّر‪ :‬لتمكين تشغيل حلقة التكرار أو تعطيله‪.‬‬
                      ‫‪ −‬تشغيل المشفِّّر‪ :‬لضبط طول حلقة التكرار‪.‬‬


‫‪ :OUT/IN‬لتمكين حلقة التكرار عن طريق اختيار نقطة اإلدخال (‪)IN‬‬
                                           ‫ونقطة اإلخراج (‪.)OUT‬‬
                        ‫عندما تكون حلقة التكرار نشطة (أي ممكّنة)‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬اضغط على ‪( IN‬يومض الزر) وأدر األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
                    ‫المزودة بمحرك لتحريك بداية حلقة التكرار‪.‬‬
                                                       ‫ّ‬
‫‪ −‬اضغط على ‪( OUT‬يومض الزر) وأدر األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
                   ‫المزودة بمحرك لتحريك نهاية حلقة التكرار‪.‬‬
                                                      ‫ّ‬
        ‫للخروج من حلقة التكرار‪ ،‬اضغط على مشفِّّر ‪.AUTOLOOP‬‬
                                                  ‫في ®‪:DJUCED‬‬
      ‫‪ :IN + SHIFT −‬تقسم حجم حلقة التكرار النشطة على اثنين‪.‬‬
‫‪ :OUT + SHIFT −‬لمضاعفة حجم حلقة التكرار النشطة بمقدار‬
                                                       ‫اثنين‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬الضغط فترة طويلة على ‪ :IN‬لتمكين حلقة التكرار من أربع‬
                                                     ‫نبضات‪.‬‬

                              ‫‪21‬‬
                               ‫‪ .4‬أدوات التحكم في اختيار المقطع‬




‫مشفِّّر ‪ :*BROWSER‬يتيح لك تصفح مكتبة الموسيقى الخاصة بك‬
‫وقائمة المقاطع عن طريق تحويل المشفِّّر إلى اليسار (أعلى) أو إلى‬
                                                    ‫اليمين (أسفل)‪.‬‬
‫اضغط على المشفِّّر لتحديد المجلدات وتحميل المقطع المحدد على سطح‬
                                                             ‫الوجهة‪.‬‬


                                                        ‫حلقة مضيئة‪:‬‬
  ‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يظهر مستوى الطاقة للمقطع الرئيسي لإليقاع‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬يظهر اإليقاع‪ .‬يومض الضوء على إيقاع‬
                                                        ‫المقطع‪:‬‬
                     ‫‪ o‬األحمر‪ :‬يشير إلى الدقة األولى‪.‬‬
             ‫‪ o‬األزرق‪ :‬يشير إلى الدقات الثالث اآلتية‪:‬‬




                              ‫‪22‬‬
                                             ‫‪:*PREP./ASSIST.‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يعرض اللوحة التي تقترح أفضل المقاطع‬
                                              ‫القادمة لمزيجك‪.‬‬
   ‫للتنقل عبر قائمة المقاطع المقترحة‪ ،‬أدر مشفِّّر ‪.BROWSER‬‬
‫لتحديد مقطع‪ ،‬اضغط على مشفِّّر ‪ .BROWSER‬يجب إيقاف‬
     ‫المقطع الذي تم تحميله بالفعل مؤقتًا على هذا القرص الدوار‪.‬‬
‫اضغط على ‪ PREP./ASSIST.‬وأدر المشفِّّر لضبط مستوى‬
                                      ‫الطاقة للمقاطع المقترحة‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬يضيف المقطع الجاري تشغيله إلى قائمة‬
                                           ‫‪( Prepare‬إعداد)‪.‬‬
 ‫‪ :PREP./ASSIST. + SHIFT‬لفتح لوحة ‪( Prepare‬إعداد)‪.‬‬

‫ي الشجري في‬
          ‫‪ :*BACK‬يتيح لك التنقل عبر التركيب الهيكل ّ‬
                                    ‫‪ DJUCED‬و‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،DJUCED‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‪ BACK‬للرجوع إلى‬
                                                ‫عمود المكتبة‪.‬‬




                      ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬
                               ‫‪23‬‬
                                            ‫‪ .5‬أداة تالشي اإليقاع‬




‫أداة تالشي اإليقاع‪ :‬تضبط سرعة تشغيل المقطع بتعديل عدد النبضات‬
                                                         ‫في الدقيقة‪.‬‬
                                 ‫‪ −‬التحرك ألعلى‪ :‬يبطئ المقطع‪.‬‬
                                ‫‪ −‬التحرك ألسفل‪ :‬يسرع المقطع‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬أداة تالشي اإليقاع في المنتصف‪ :‬سرعة المقطع األصلية‪ .‬يضيء‬
                                        ‫مؤشر ‪ LED‬األبيض‪.‬‬


‫عند تمكين وظيفة ‪ ،Beatmatch Guide‬تشير أدلة ‪ TEMPO‬المرئية‬
‫إلى ما إذا كنت بحاجة إلى تحريك أداة تالشي اإليقاع ألعلى أو ألسفل‪،‬‬
‫إلبطاء المقطع أو لتسريعه‪ .‬عندما يتم إيقاف تشغيل السهمين األحمرين‪،‬‬
‫يكون اإليقاع على هذا القرص مماثالً لإليقاع على القرص الدوار اآلخر‪.‬‬


‫للحصول على مزيد من المعلومات حول وظيفة ‪،Beatmatch Guide‬‬
                           ‫يُرجى قراءة قسم ‪.Beatmatch Guide‬‬




                               ‫‪24‬‬
‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬عند تمكين وضع ‪،SYNC‬‬
‫يتيح لك الضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬وتحريك أداة تالشي اإليقاع في الوقت‬
    ‫نفسه يمكنك من تحريك قيم أداة تالشي اإليقاع مع الحفاظ على القوة‪.‬‬


‫على سبيل المثال‪ ،‬باستخدام مقياس سرعة يبلغ ‪ ،%8±‬أو قوة صوت‬
‫‪ ،%16‬يمكنك تحريك قيم أداة تالشي اإليقاع لتغطية من ‪( %0‬الحد‬
‫األقصى) إلى ‪( %16-‬الحد األدنى)‪ ،‬والذي ال يزال ينتج عنه قوة صوت‬
                                    ‫‪ ،%16‬مع ‪ %8-‬في المنتصف‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪25‬‬
             ‫‪ :*RANGE‬يتيح لك قياس إيقاع أدوات تالشي اإليقاع‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪،% 12 ± ،% 10 ± ،% 8 ± ،% 6 ± :DJUCED‬‬
      ‫‪.% 50 ± ،% 33 ± ،% 25 ± ،% 20 ± ،% 16 ±‬‬
       ‫‪ −‬في ‪.% 50 ± ،% 16 ± ،% 8 ± :Serato DJ Lite‬‬
 ‫‪ :)KEYLOCK) RANGE + SHIFT‬لقفل المفتاح الموسيقي للمقطع‪.‬‬
‫للتأكد من قفل المفتاح الموسيقي‪ ،‬اضغط على ‪ .SHIFT‬زر ‪RANGE‬‬
                                                     ‫مضيء‪.‬‬




                   ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬
                           ‫‪26‬‬
                                             ‫‪ .6‬اللوحات واألوضاع‬




             ‫أزرار الوضع‪ :‬تتيح لك تمكين ما يصل إلى ثمانية أوضاع‪.‬‬
‫لتمكين الوضع الرئيسي‪ ،‬اضغط على ‪ HOT CUE 1‬أو ‪ LOOP 2‬أو‬
                                     ‫‪ STEMS 3‬أو ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
‫لتمكين الوضع الثانوي (‪ MODE 5‬و‪ MODE 6‬و‪MODE 7‬‬
‫و‪ ،)MODE 8‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‪ HOT CUE 1‬أو ‪ LOOP 2‬أو‬
  ‫‪ STEMS 3‬أو ‪ SAMPLER 4‬في نفس الوقت‪ .‬يومض زر الوضع‪.‬‬
 ‫تختلف األوضاع التي يتم تمكينها على اللوحات وفقًا للبرنامج المستخدم‪.‬‬


‫للحصول على مزيد من المعلومات حول األوضاع المختلفة من خالل‬
‫‪ DJUCED‬و‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يُرجى قراءة قسم‬
                                                  ‫األوضاع واللوحات‪.‬‬


                                     ‫لوحات األداء‪ :‬لوحة تؤدي إجراءً ‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪27‬‬
                                          ‫‪ .7‬أوضاع التشغيل‬




‫‪ :INSTRUMENTAL‬يتيح لك تشغيل أجزاء اللحن والجهير والطبول‬
                      ‫فقط من المقطع‪ .‬هذا اختصار لوضع ‪.Stems‬‬
‫‪ −‬لتشغيل أجزاء اللحن والجهير والطبول فقط من المقطع‪ ،‬اضغط‬
                ‫على زر ‪ .INSTRUMENTAL‬يضيء الزر‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬الستئناف تشغيل جميع أجزاء المقطع (األصوات واللحن والجهير‬
‫والطبول)‪ ،‬اضغط على زر ‪ INSTRUMENTAL‬مجددًا‪ .‬ينطفئ‬
                                             ‫ضوء الزر‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪28‬‬
‫‪ :INSTRUMENTAL + SHIFT‬لتمكين وضع ‪ .Slip‬في وضع ‪،Slip‬‬
‫يستمر خط تشغيل التسجيل في التقدم في الخلفية عند تطبيق تأثير أو‬
‫تكرار‪ ،‬أو وضع نقطة ‪ ،Cue‬أو عند استخدام األسطوانات الفونوغرافية‬
‫المزوّ دة بمحرك‪ .‬وعندما تتوقف عن تطبيق تأثير‪ ،‬سيُستأنف التشغيل من‬
‫النقطة التي كان من المفترض أن يكون المقطع الصوتي عندها إذا استمر‬
                                                      ‫في التشغيل‪.‬‬
‫للتأكد من تمكين وضع ‪ ،Slip‬اضغط على ‪ .SHIFT‬يضيء زر‬
                                            ‫‪.INSTRUMENTAL‬‬




                           ‫ال يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬بوضع ‪.Slip‬‬
                              ‫يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬بوضع ‪.Slip‬‬




                               ‫‪29‬‬
‫‪ :VOCAL‬يتيح لك تشغيل جزء األصوات من المقطع فقط‪ .‬هذا اختصار‬
                                               ‫لوضع ‪.Stems‬‬
‫‪ −‬لتشغيل جزء األصوات فقط من المقطع‪ ،‬اضغط على زر‬
                                   ‫‪ .VOCAL‬يضيء الزر‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬الستئناف تشغيل جميع أجزاء المقطع (األصوات واللحن والجهير‬
 ‫والطبول)‪ ،‬اضغط على زر ‪ VOCAL‬مجددًا‪ .‬ينطفئ ضوء الزر‪.‬‬


‫‪ :VOCAL + SHIFT‬لتمكين وضع ‪ .Quantize‬يتيح لك التكميم تطبيق‬
‫إجراء على اإليقاع التالي في الشبكة (قم بتشغيل المقطع‪ ،‬ضع نقطة‬
                                           ‫‪ ،Cue‬ابدأ حلقة…)‪.‬‬
‫للتأكد من تمكين وضع ‪ ،Quantize‬اضغط على ‪ .SHIFT‬يضيء زر‬
                                                    ‫‪.VOCAL‬‬




                    ‫ال يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬بوضع ‪.Quantize‬‬
                      ‫يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬بوضع ‪.Quantize‬‬




                             ‫‪30‬‬
‫(‪ )+ pitch bend‬يتيح لك محاذاة‬          ‫(‪/ )- pitch bend‬‬
‫شبكة اإليقاعات الخاصة بالمقطع الذي يتم تشغيله على هذا القرص‬
     ‫الدوار يدويًا مع شبكة اإليقاعات الخاصة بالقرص الدوار األخرى‪.‬‬
‫إلبطاء القرص الدوار بشكل‬           ‫‪ −‬اضغط مع االستمرار على‬
                                                     ‫ي‪.‬‬
                                                      ‫لحظ ّ‬
‫لتسريع القرص الدوار بشكل‬           ‫‪ −‬اضغط مع االستمرار على‬
                                                     ‫لحظيّ ‪.‬‬




‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتيح لك ‪SHIFT‬‬
‫ضبط اإلعدادات في أوضاع معينة‬             ‫و‪+ SHIFT‬‬              ‫‪+‬‬
                                                   ‫(اإلعدادات)‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪31‬‬
                                                        ‫المزج‬
           ‫‪ .8‬المتابعة ومستوى الصوت و‪Beatmatch Guide‬‬




            ‫مستوى صوت ‪ :MIC‬يضبط مستوى صوت الميكروفون‪.‬‬


‫حلقة مضيئة ‪ :MIC‬تشير إلى مستوى اإلشارة الصوتية (مقياس شدة‬
                                                     ‫الصوت)‪.‬‬
                   ‫‪ −‬قيد إيقاف التشغيل‪ :‬ال توجد إشارة صوتية‪.‬‬
                      ‫‪ −‬األخضر‪ :‬يتم تشغيل اإلشارة الصوتية‪.‬‬
                          ‫‪ −‬األحمر‪ :‬اإلشارة الصوتية متشبعة‪.‬‬


‫مستوى صوت ‪ :MASTER‬يضبط مستوى صوت المزج الذي يتم‬
                        ‫تشغيله على مكبرات الصوت الخاصة بك‪.‬‬


‫مقياس شدة صوت ‪ :MASTER‬يعرض مستوى اإلشارة الصوتية‬
     ‫إلخراج ‪ RCA( Master‬أو ‪ )XLR‬بالنسبة إلى مكبرات الصوت‪.‬‬

                           ‫‪32‬‬
                              ‫مستوى صوت ‪:HEADPHONES‬‬
‫‪ :‬يضبط اإلشارة التي يتم تشغيلها على سماعات‬        ‫‪/‬‬       ‫‪−‬‬
‫الرأس لديك‪ ،‬مع مزج إخراج ‪( Cue‬مراقبة القرصين الدوارين ‪1‬‬
                        ‫و‪ )2‬وإخراج ‪( Mix‬إخراج ‪.)Master‬‬
‫‪ o‬لالستماع إلى المراقبة فقط‪ ،‬اضغط على أزرار المراقبة‬
‫للقرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪ .2‬األزرار تضيء‪ .‬ثم اضبط المقبض‬
                                          ‫على ‪.Cue‬‬
‫‪ o‬لالستماع إلى إخراج ‪ Master‬فقط‪ ،‬اضغط على زر مراقبة‬
‫‪ .Master‬يضيء الزر‪ .‬بعدها اضبط المقبض على ‪Mix‬‬
   ‫لضبط المزج الذي يتم تشغيله على سماعات الرأس لديك‪.‬‬
         ‫‪ :‬يضبط مستوى صوت إخراج سماعات الرأس‪.‬‬             ‫‪−‬‬




                             ‫‪33‬‬
   ‫‪.‬‬   ‫المتابعة‪ :‬تحدد مصدر الصوت الذي يتم تشغيله على سماعات الرأس‬
‫(الموجود أسفل مقياس شدة صوت ‪ :)MASTER‬لتشغيل‬                   ‫‪−‬‬
              ‫صوت المزج الذي يتم تشغيله بصوت عا ٍل للجمهور‪.‬‬
‫* (الموجود على جانبي زر ‪:)BEATMATCH GUIDE‬‬                     ‫‪−‬‬
‫لتشغيل صوت القرص الدوار ‪ 1‬أو القرص الدوار ‪ 2‬عند ضبط‬
                                     ‫زر ‪ Cue/Mix‬على ‪.Cue‬‬
‫* (بجوار زر‬         ‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‬
‫‪ )BEATMATCH GUIDE‬لتعديل شبكة اإليقاعات الخاصة بالمقطع‬
‫الذي يتم تشغيله على هذا القرص الدوار‪ .‬للخروج من وضع تحرير شبكة‬
                        ‫اإليقاع‪ ،‬انقر على ‪( Edit Grid‬تحرير الشبكة)‪.‬‬




                        ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬

                                ‫‪34‬‬
‫‪ :BEATMATCH GUIDE‬يم ّكن أو يعطل الدالئل الضوئية لضبط‬
‫اإليقاع ومحاذاة شبكات اإليقاع للمقطعين‪ .‬هناك أربعة أسهم حمراء في‬
                                                 ‫كل قرص دوار‪.‬‬




 ‫ي القرصين الدوارين على أنه لوح‬
                              ‫يعرّ ف ‪ DJUCED‬أحد لوح ّ‬
                                              ‫®‬


 ‫التزامن الرئيس (‪ )Master Sync‬واآلخر على أنه اللوح التابع‪.‬‬
 ‫يضيء السهمان األحمران على اللوح التابع فقط‪ ،‬حيث يتبع هذا اللوح‬
                                      ‫إيقاع لوح المزامنة الرئيس‪.‬‬
 ‫ال يحدد ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬لوح تزامن رئيسيًا‪ .‬يضيء السهمان‬
                                      ‫األحمران على كال اللوحين‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪35‬‬
‫‪ −‬أدلة ‪ TEMPO‬المرئية‪ :‬إذا كان أحد السهمين األحمرين الموجودين‬
‫على يمين أداة تالشي اإليقاع مضيئًا‪ ،‬فهذا يعني أن اإليقاع (أي‬
‫عدد النبضات في الدقيقة) الخاص بالمقطع المشغل على لوح‬
                ‫القرص الدوار هذا يختلف عن إيقاع اللوح اآلخر‪.‬‬
‫يشير السهمان إلى االتجاه الذي تريد تحريك أداة تالشي اإليقاع فيه‬
‫لضبط إيقاع المقطع الذي يتم تشغيله لمطابقة اإليقاع على القرص‬
                                                  ‫الدوار اآلخر‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬السهم العلوي مضاء‪ :‬حرك أداة تالشي اإليقاع ألعلى‪.‬‬
                       ‫سيؤدي ذلك إلى إبطاء اإليقاع‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬السهم السفلي مضاء‪ :‬حرك أداة تالشي اإليقاع ألسفل‪.‬‬
                      ‫سيؤدي ذلك إلى تسريع اإليقاع‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬األسهم غير مضاءة‪ :‬إيقاع القرص الدوار مطابق إليقاع‬
                            ‫قرص المزامنة الرئيسي‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪36‬‬
‫‪ −‬أدلة ‪ BEAT ALIGN‬المرئية‪ :‬إذا أضاء أحد السهمين األحمرين‬
‫الموجودين أسفل األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك‪ ،‬فهذا‬
‫يعني أن إيقاع المقطع ال ُمشغّل على لوح القرص الدوار هذا ال‬
                                  ‫يتماشى مع إيقاع اللوح اآلخر‪.‬‬
‫يشير السهمان إلى االتجاه الذي تحتاج أن تدير األسطوانة‬
‫المزودة بمحرك إليه لمحاذاة إيقاعات المقطع الذي يتم‬
                                             ‫ّ‬     ‫الفونوغرافية‬
                        ‫تشغيله مع إيقاعات القرص الدوار اآلخر‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬إضاءة السهم األيسر‪ :‬أدر األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
‫المزودة بمحرك في اتجاه عقارب الساعة‪ .‬يزيد ذلك من‬
                                           ‫ّ‬
                                      ‫سرعة التشغيل‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬إضاءة السهم األيمن‪ :‬أدر األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
‫المزودة بمحرك في عكس اتجاه عقارب الساعة‪ .‬يؤدي‬
                                        ‫ّ‬
                       ‫ذلك إلى إبطاء سرعة التشغيل‪.‬‬
‫‪ o‬السهمان غير مضيئين‪ :‬يتماشى إيقاع لوح القرص‬
                         ‫الدوار مع إيقاع اللوح اآلخر‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪37‬‬
                                                ‫‪ .9‬قسم المزج‬




‫مقبض ‪ :*GAIN‬يضبط االكتساب (أي مستوى الصوت قبل تالشي‬
                                                      ‫الصوت)‪.‬‬


‫المعادل ثالثي األطوار (‪ :*)EQ‬يتحكم في شدة المعادل‪ .‬يرتبط مقبض‬
                          ‫واحد بكل طور‪ HIGH :‬و‪ MID‬و‪.LOW‬‬


‫مقبض ‪ :*FILTER‬يضبط تردد المرشح المزدوج (تمرير عالٍ وتمرير‬
                                                      ‫منخفض)‪.‬‬




                     ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬
                             ‫‪38‬‬
                                          ‫جهاز المزج‬    ‫‪.10‬‬




‫مقياس شدة الصوت‪ :‬يعرض مستوى إشارة الصوت للقرصين الدوارين‬
                                                         ‫‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬

           ‫أداة تالشي الصوت*‪ :‬تضبط مستوى صوت القرص الدوار‪.‬‬

‫أداة التداخل التدريجي‪ :‬تتيح لك صنع انتقاالت بين مقطعين عن طريق‬
‫زيادة مستوى صوت أحد لوحي القرصين الدوارين‪ ،‬بينما يقلل مستوى‬
                                  ‫صوت لوح القرص الدوار اآلخر‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬أداة التداخل التدريجي ألقصى اليسار‪ :‬تسمع فقط المقطع بالقرص‬
                                                 ‫الدوار ‪.1‬‬
‫‪ −‬أداة التداخل التدريجي ألقصى اليمين‪ :‬تسمع فقط المقطع بالقرص‬
                                                 ‫الدوار ‪.2‬‬
‫‪ −‬أداة التداخل التدريجي في المنتصف‪ :‬تسمع المقاطع بالقرصين‬
                              ‫الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪ 2‬في الوقت نفسه‪.‬‬
                             ‫‪39‬‬
          ‫مفتاح المنحنى‪ :‬يتيح لك تعديل منحنى أداة التداخل التدريجي‪.‬‬
           ‫(‪ :)mix‬المزج التدريجي بين القرصين الدوارين‪.‬‬        ‫‪−‬‬
   ‫(‪ :)scratch‬المزج السريع للغاية بين القرصين الدوارين‪.‬‬       ‫‪−‬‬
                                                  ‫( ُم ّ‬
‫عطل)‪ :‬تم تعطيل أداة التداخل التدريجي‪ ،‬للمزج باستخدام‬          ‫‪−‬‬
                             ‫أدوات تالشي مستوى الصوت فقط‪.‬‬




 ‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يمكنك تعديل إعدادات أداة‬
                  ‫التداخل التدريجي‪ .‬انتقل إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬ثم ‪:Mixer‬‬
      ‫‪( Power −‬الطاقة)‪ :‬منحنى سريع إلضافة الخدش إلى الصوت‪.‬‬
                                               ‫‪( Linear −‬خط ّ‬
                         ‫ي)‪ :‬منحنى تدريجي للمزج‪.‬‬
 ‫‪( Reverse −‬عكسي)‪ :‬يعكس اتجاه أداة التداخل التدريجي‪ ،‬المعروفة‬
                                 ‫ضا باسم وضع "‪."Hamster‬‬
                                                      ‫أي ً‬




                       ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬
                               ‫‪40‬‬
                                                          ‫التأثيرات‬    ‫‪.11‬‬




                                                       ‫لعرض حامل التأثيرات‪:‬‬
                                  ‫‪.‬‬          ‫‪ −‬في ‪ :DJUCED‬انقر فوق‬
                             ‫‪.‬‬        ‫‪ −‬في ‪ :Serato DJ Lite‬انقر فوق‬


‫*‪ :‬تتيح لك تحديد تأثير من حامل التأثيرات‪.‬‬          ‫‪/‬‬      ‫‪/‬‬    ‫أزرار التأثيرات‬
                                                                 ‫يضيء الزر‪.‬‬
                                        ‫لتمكين التأثير‪ ،‬استخدم ذراع األداء‪.‬‬
‫تأثيرا جديدًا في‬
           ‫ً‬     ‫‪ ،‬حدد‬   ‫‪/‬‬       ‫‪/‬‬      ‫لتعديل التأثيرات المرتبطة باألزرار‬
‫حامل التأثيرات‪ .‬في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يمكنك‬
‫لعرض قائمة التأثيرات‪ ،‬ثم‬         ‫أو‬      ‫‪،‬‬     ‫ضا الضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‬
                                                                  ‫أي ً‬
‫مرة أخرى للتنقل عبر القائمة‬             ‫أو‬     ‫‪،‬‬   ‫اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‬
                                                         ‫وتحديد التأثير الجديد‪.‬‬




                                                   ‫في ‪:Serato DJ Lite‬‬
             ‫‪ −‬من الممكن الجمع بين تأثيرات متعددة في الوقت نفسه‪.‬‬

                                      ‫‪41‬‬
 ‫الموجودة على اليسار على‬      ‫‪/‬‬        ‫‪/‬‬      ‫‪ −‬تنطبق التأثيرات الثالثة‬
 ‫القرص الدوار األيسر (القرص الدوار ‪ ،)1‬كما تنطبق التأثيرات‬
 ‫الموجودة على اليمين على القرص الدوار‬              ‫‪/‬‬     ‫‪/‬‬        ‫الثالثة‬
                                           ‫األيمن (القرص الدوار ‪.)2‬‬
 ‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬تنطبق مجموعتا أزرار التأثيرات الثالثة على‬
                                       ‫القرصين الدوارين االفتراضيين‪.‬‬


‫أو‬   ‫ذراع األداء*‪ :‬يتيح لك تمكين التأثير الذي يتم تحميله على األزرار‬
                                  ‫‪ .‬هناك ثالثة مواضع مختلفة‪:‬‬           ‫أو‬
‫‪ :HOLD −‬لتمكين التأثير باستمرار في أثناء وجود الذراع في هذا‬
                                                             ‫الموضع‪.‬‬
                            ‫‪ :ON −‬لتمكين التأثير بشكل لحظ ّ‬
‫ي في أثناء وجود الذراع في هذا‬
                                                             ‫الموضع‪.‬‬
                                ‫َّ‬
                              ‫معطل‪.‬‬ ‫‪ −‬الموضع المركزي‪ :‬التأثير‬


                                  ‫مقبض ‪ :DEPTH‬لضبط شدة التأثير‪.‬‬


      ‫‪ :‬لضبط مدة دورة التأثير المتزامن مع الموسيقى‪.‬‬           ‫‪/‬‬       ‫األزرار‬




                                  ‫ال يتضمن ‪ DJUCED‬هذه الوظيفة‪.‬‬



                       ‫*الوظيفة متطابقة في القرصين الدوارين ‪ 1‬و‪.2‬‬

                                  ‫‪42‬‬
                                                  ‫الموصّ الت‬




         ‫مخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت (المخرج ‪)2-1‬‬          ‫‪.12‬‬
                           ‫إدخال الميكروفون المتوازن‬     ‫‪.13‬‬
                                   ‫منفذ ‪USB-B 2.0‬‬        ‫‪.14‬‬
                                      ‫زر ‪POWER‬‬           ‫‪.15‬‬
                          ‫موصل مناسب لمحول الطاقة‬        ‫‪.16‬‬
                  ‫مخرج سماعات الرأس (المخرج ‪)4-3‬‬         ‫‪.17‬‬


‫المخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت (المخرج ‪ :)2-1‬يتيح لك توصيل‬
                                       ‫مكبرات الصوت النشطة‪.‬‬
‫التنسيقات‪ :‬عدد ‪ RCA 2‬غير متوازنين (‪ )Cinch‬وعدد ‪XLR 2‬‬
                                                       ‫متوازنين‪.‬‬


‫إدخال الميكروفون المتوازن‪ :‬يتيح لك توصيل ميكروفون متوازن أو‬
                                                  ‫غير متوازن‪.‬‬
                                 ‫التنسيق‪ :‬مقبس بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم‪.‬‬

                            ‫‪43‬‬
   ‫منفذ ‪ :USB-B 2.0‬يتيح لك توصيل وحدة التحكم بجهاز الكمبيوتر‪.‬‬


‫زر الطاقة‪ :‬يتيح لك تشغيل وحدة التحكم ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
                                               ‫وإيقاف تشغيلها‪.‬‬


‫موصل مناسب لمحول الطاقة‪ :‬يتيح لك توصيل كابل الطاقة وتوصيل‬
‫وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬بمأخذ كهربائي باستخدام‬
                                                      ‫المحول‪.‬‬


‫مخرج سماعات الرأس (المخرج ‪ :)4-3‬يتيح لك توصيل سماعات‬
                                  ‫الرأس من أجل متابعة المقاطع‪.‬‬
‫التنسيقات‪ :‬موصل مقبس صغير إستريو بمقاس ‪ 3.5‬مم وموصل مقبس‬
                                       ‫إستريو بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪44‬‬
‫قم بتمديد األقدام األربع القابلة للسحب لرفع وحدة التحكم ‪DJControl‬‬
                   ‫‪ Inpulse T7‬وتشغيل الكابالت الموجودة أسفلها‪.‬‬




   ‫‪ −‬اسحب األقدام قبل نقل وحدة التحكم ‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬       ‫‪ −‬اسحب األقدام عند عدم استخدام وحدة التحكم‬
                                                 ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬
‫‪ −‬عند تمديد األقدام‪ ،‬ال تضغط إلى األسفل على وحدة التحكم‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬بوزن يزيد على ‪ 5‬كجم‪ 50/‬نيوتن من‬
                                                         ‫القوة‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪45‬‬
                                                   ‫التركيب‬          ‫‪.4‬‬

                                                              ‫التوصيالت‬
    ‫صل محول الطاقة بوحدة التحكم ‪.DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
                                                    ‫‪ .1‬و ِّ ّ‬
 ‫‪ .2‬وصِّ ّ ل كابل الطاقة بمحول الطاقة‪ ،‬ووصِّ ّ له بمأخذ التيار الكهربائي‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬وصِّ ّ ل كابل ‪ USB‬بوحدة التحكم ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬

                                                       ‫والكمبيوتر‪.‬‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬       ‫‪ .4‬اضغط على زر ‪ POWER‬في وحدة التحكم‬
                              ‫‪ .Inpulse T7‬يتم الضغط على الزر‪.‬‬
‫‪ .5‬تأكد من إيقاف تشغيل مكبرات الصوت‪ ،‬أو إذا كانت متصلة‬
‫بمضخم صوت خارجي‪ ،‬فتأكد من إيقاف تشغيل مكبر الصوت‪.‬‬
‫صّ ل مدخالت السماعات النشطة بمخرجات ‪ Master‬في مكبرات‬
                                                   ‫و ِّ‬
‫الصوت ضمن وحدة التحكم ‪( DJControl Inpulse T7‬عدد ‪2‬‬
                                           ‫‪ RCA‬أو عدد ‪.)XLR 2‬‬
‫‪ .6‬اضبط مستوى صوت ‪ MASTER‬إلى الحد األدنى في وحدة‬
     ‫التحكم ‪ ،DJControl Inpulse T7‬ثم ش ِّغّل مكبرات الصوت‪.‬‬
‫صّ ل‬
   ‫‪ .7‬ضع سماعات الرأس حول رقبتك (وليس على أذنيك)‪ ،‬ثم و ِّ‬
‫سماعات الرأس بموصل المقبس الصغير بمقاس ‪ 3.5‬مم أو موصل‬
                                            ‫المقبس بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم‪.‬‬
                 ‫صّ ل الميكروفون بمدخل الميكروفون (اختياري)‪.‬‬
                                                           ‫‪ .8‬و ِّ‬




                                    ‫‪46‬‬
                        ‫مصدر طاقة‬
      ‫‪ −‬ال تستخدم سوى مصدر الطاقة الموضَّح في دليل المستخدم‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ال تستخدم سوى مصدر الطاقة الذي يأتي بجهد الشبكة وترددها‬
                 ‫المُ وضَّحين على لوحة تصنيف مصدر الطاقة‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪47‬‬
‫‪ −‬من الممكن استخدام كال تنسيقي اإلخراج (‪ XLR‬و‪ )RCA‬في وقت‬
‫واحد ‪ -‬مثالً‪ ،‬عن طريق توصيل زوج إخراج بنظام ‪ ،PA‬وزوج‬
                         ‫ثان بمكبرات صوت المراقبة‪.‬‬
                                               ‫إخراج ٍ‬
‫‪ −‬تبدأ سلسلة من أضواء ‪ LED‬تسمى ‪ Vegas Mode‬بالعمل في كل‬
‫مرة تقوم فيها بتوصيل وحدة التحكم ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫بالكمبيوتر لديك‪ .‬يتم تنفيذ ‪ Vegas Mode‬على أربع مراحل‪ ،‬ما‬
‫يسمح له بإضاءة جميع مصابيح ‪ LED‬وعرض األلوان المختلفة‬
‫الممكنة على اللوحات وعلى الحلقات ذات اإلضاءة الخلفية‬
                                  ‫لمشفِّّرات ‪.BROWSER‬‬




                            ‫‪48‬‬
                                                ‫تنزيل البرنامج‬

                                                   ‫‪DJUCED‬‬

     ‫‪ .1‬يُرجى زيارة ‪.https://www.djuced.com/hercules‬‬
                              ‫‪ .2‬قم بتنزيل وتثبيت ®‪.DJUCED‬‬
                                               ‫‪ .3‬يُرجى زيارة‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin‬‬
                               ‫‪( pulset7/‬باللغة اإلنجليزية)‪.‬‬
                                                        ‫‪ّ .4‬‬
‫نزل حزمة برامج التشغيل لنظام تشغيل جهاز الكمبيوتر الخاص بك‬
                                                     ‫وثبّتها‪.‬‬
                 ‫‪HDJC Series Mac :macOS® o‬‬
                ‫‪HDJC Series PC :Windows® o‬‬
‫يتطلب نظام ®‪ Windows‬تثبيت برامج التشغيل الستخدام‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬في وضع ‪ ،ASIO‬الذي يقلل من وقت‬
  ‫االستجابة مقارنة بوضع ‪ WASAPI‬ويعد أكثر ثباتًا بشكل عام‪.‬‬
‫كما تتيح لك برامج التشغيل اختبار ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫الخاص بك والتحقق من نسخة البرامج الثابتة في ®‪Windows‬‬
                                              ‫و®‪.macOS‬‬
‫‪ .5‬افتح برنامج ‪ .DJUCED‬تظهر نافذة‪ ،‬تشير إلى أنه قد تم اكتشاف‬
‫وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬بنجاح وأنها جاهزة‬
                                                  ‫لالستخدام‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪49‬‬
 ‫عند تشغيل البرنامج ألول مرة‪ ،‬يرشدك ®‪ DJUCED‬خالل توصيل سماعات‬
 ‫الرأس والسماعات الخارجية النشطة الخاصة بك (أو يسمح لك باستخدام‬
 ‫السماعات المضمنة في جهاز الكمبيوتر الخاص بك إذا لم تكن لديك سماعات‬
 ‫خارجية نشطة)‪ .‬اتبع المعلومات التي تظهر على الشاشة خطوة بخطوة قبل‬
                                                              ‫البدء‪.‬‬


                                                   ‫إعدادات الصوت‪:‬‬
‫في ®‪ ،DJUCED‬لتعديل إعدادات بطاقة الصوت‪ ،‬انقر فوق أيقونة‬
‫في الجزء العلوي األيمن من الشاشة‪ .‬يتم عرض قائمة‬        ‫العجلة المسننة‬
                                                          ‫اإلعدادات‪.‬‬
‫حدد عالمة التبويب ‪( Audio‬الصوت) الختيار بطاقة الصوت‪ ،‬وقم‬
                     ‫بتعيين مخارج سماعات الرأس ومكبرات الصوت‪.‬‬


                  ‫اإلعداد القياسي لنظام ®‪ Windows‬على النحو اآلتي‪:‬‬
‫‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬        ‫‪( Audio device −‬جهاز الصوت)‪:‬‬
                                               ‫)‪ASIO (ASIO‬‬
                                           ‫‪( Output −‬اإلخراج)‪:‬‬
                           ‫‪Outputs 1&2 :Master o‬‬
                   ‫‪Outputs 3&4 :Headphones o‬‬




                                ‫‪50‬‬
             :‫ على النحو اآلتي‬macOS® ‫اإلعداد القياسي لنظام‬
DJControl Inpulse T7 :)‫ (جهاز الصوت‬Audio device −
                                  :)‫ (اإلخراج‬Output −
                  Outputs 1&2 :Master o

            Outputs 3&4 :Headphones o




                        51
                                             ‫‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬

  ‫‪ .1‬يُرجى زيارة‪.https://serato.com/dj/lite/downloads :‬‬
                                                         ‫‪ّ .2‬‬
                                 ‫نزل ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬وثبّته‪.‬‬
                                                ‫‪ .3‬يُرجى زيارة‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolin‬‬
                                ‫‪( pulset7/‬باللغة اإلنجليزية)‪.‬‬
‫‪ .4‬نزّ ل حزمة برامج التشغيل لنظام تشغيل جهاز الكمبيوتر الخاص بك‬
                                                      ‫وثبّتها‪.‬‬
                 ‫‪HDJC Series Mac :macOS® o‬‬
                 ‫‪HDJC Series PC :Windows® o‬‬
‫يتطلب نظام ®‪ Windows‬تثبيت برامج التشغيل الستخدام‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬في وضع ‪ ،ASIO‬الذي يقلل من وقت‬
  ‫االستجابة مقارنة بوضع ‪ WASAPI‬ويعد أكثر ثباتًا بشكل عام‪.‬‬
‫كما تتيح لك برامج التشغيل اختبار ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫الخاص بك والتحقق من نسخة البرامج الثابتة في ®‪Windows‬‬
                                               ‫و®‪.macOS‬‬




                               ‫‪52‬‬
‫صا لـ ‪Serato‬‬
           ‫تتضمن ‪ Hercules DJControl Inpulse T7‬ترخي ً‬
                           ‫‪ ،DJ Lite‬وليس ‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬
           ‫يمكن استخدام ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬من دون أي حد زمني‪.‬‬
‫عند تثبيت ‪ Serato DJ Pro‬بدالً من ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬ستعمل‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Pro‬مع ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬لديك طوال الفترة‬
‫التجريبية‪ .‬في نهاية هذه الفترة التجريبية‪ ،‬إذا كنت ترغب في‬
‫االستمرار في استخدام ‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬فيجب عليك شراء‬
                                 ‫ترخيص ‪.Serato DJ Pro‬‬




                           ‫‪53‬‬
                                 ‫ارفع إيقاع مزيجك‬                ‫‪.5‬‬
                                ‫هناك طرق مختلفة لرفع إيقاع مزيجك‪.‬‬



                                                   ‫أوضاع ولوحات‬
                                                               ‫اللوحات‬

‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬تنفذ اللوحات من ‪ 1‬إلى ‪ 8‬اإلجراءات المقابلة للوضع‬
                                                         ‫المم ّكن حاليًا‪.‬‬


‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬تنفذ اللوحات من ‪ 1‬إلى ‪ 4‬اإلجراءات المقابلة‬
     ‫للوضع المم ّكن حاليًا‪ .‬اللوحات من ‪ 5‬إلى ‪ 8‬تنفذ اإلجراءات التالية‪:‬‬
                          ‫‪ −‬اللوحة ‪( Reverse :5‬تشغيل عكسيّ )‬
                                               ‫‪ −‬اللوحة ‪ :6‬ترجيع‬
                                           ‫‪ −‬اللوحة ‪ :7‬تقديم سريع‬
‫‪ −‬اللوحة ‪ .Censor :8‬يتيح لك هذا اإلجراء تشغيل المقطع في‬
‫االتجاه المعاكس أثناء الضغط على اللوحة‪ .‬وعندما تحرر اللوحة‪،‬‬
‫يُستأنف التشغيل من النقطة التي كان من المفترض أن يكون‬
‫المقطع الصوتي عندها إذا استمر في التشغيل بصفة عادية‪ .‬يمكن‬
                   ‫استخدام هذا إلخفاء األلفاظ النابية في األغنية‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪54‬‬
:‫تختلف األوضاع التي يتم تمكينها على اللوحات وفقًا للبرنامج المستخدم‬


 Serato DJ Pro** Serato DJ Lite DJUCED ‫األوضاع‬

      Hot Cue              Hot Cue           Hot Cue          1

     Auto Loop            Auto Loop         Loop Roll         2
       Stems                Stems             Stems           3
      Sampler              Sampler           Sampler          4
     Pitch Play                –            TonePlay          5
     Loop Roll                 –             PadFX            6
   Manual Loop          Manual Loop        Slicer Loop        7
  Scratch Banks        Scratch Banks       BeatJump           8
                 .‫ غير مشمول‬Serato DJ Pro ‫** ترخيص برنامج‬




                              55
                                                ‫وضع ‪Hot Cue‬‬

‫نقطة ‪ Hot Cue‬هي عالمة (مثل اإلشارة المرجعية) يمكنك وضعها في‬
‫المقطع لتحديد لحظة معينة في المقطع بسهولة مرة أخرى‪ ،‬والعودة إليها‬
                                                    ‫فورً ا بعد ذلك‪.‬‬


          ‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يمكن تعيين ثماني نقاط ‪ Hot Cue‬للمقطع‪.‬‬


      ‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬يمكن تعيين أربع نقاط ‪ Hot Cue‬للمقطع‪.‬‬
     ‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يمكن تعيين ثماني نقاط ‪ Hot Cue‬للمقطع‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى وضع ‪ ،Hot Cue‬اضغط على ‪ .HOT CUE 1‬يظل‬
                             ‫ضوء زر ‪ HOT CUE 1‬مضيئًا‪.‬‬
                     ‫‪ .2‬لتعيين نقطة ‪ ،Hot Cue‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬
 ‫‪ .3‬لتشغيل المقطع من نقطة ‪ ،Hot Cue‬اضغط على اللوحة المقابلة‪.‬‬
‫‪ .4‬إلزالة نقطة ‪ ،Hot Cue‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬واللوحة في الوقت‬
                                                       ‫نفسه‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪56‬‬
                                                          ‫وضع ‪Loop‬‬




 ‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق هذا الوضع مع وضع ‪ .Loop Roll‬يستمر‬
 ‫رأس تشغيل القرص الدوار في التقدم في الخلفية عند تطبيق حلقة‬
 ‫تكرار‪ .‬وعندما تُعطِّ ّل الحلقة‪ ،‬يُستأنف التشغيل من النقطة التي كان من‬
       ‫المفترض أن يكون المقطع الصوتي عندها إذا استمر في التشغيل‪.‬‬
 ‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتوافق هذا الوضع مع‬
                                                 ‫وضع ‪.Auto Loop‬‬


               ‫حلقة التكرار هي جزء من مقطع يتم تشغيله بشكل متكرر‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى وضع ‪ ،Loop‬اضغط على ‪ .LOOP 2‬يظل ضوء‬
                                           ‫زر ‪ LOOP 2‬مضيئًا‪.‬‬


                                                      ‫في ‪:DJUCED‬‬
                     ‫‪ .2‬اضغط مطوالً على لوح لتطبيق حلقة متكررة‪.‬‬
                       ‫‪ .3‬لتعطيل حلقة التكرار‪ ،‬حرر اللوحة المقابلة‪.‬‬


                                                 ‫في ‪:Serato DJ Lite‬‬
                           ‫‪ .2‬لتطبيق حلقة متكررة‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬
‫المقابلة‪.‬‬   ‫اللوحة‬   ‫على‬     ‫اضغط‬      ‫متكررة‪،‬‬     ‫حلقة‬    ‫‪ .3‬لتعطيل‬




                                  ‫‪57‬‬
                                         ‫مدة حلقة التكرار‪:‬‬
‫‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬   ‫‪DJUCED‬‬       ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص الدوار ‪2‬‬


  ‫عدد ‪ 1‬نبضة‬      ‫‪ 1/16‬نبضة‬              ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
  ‫عدد ‪ 2‬نبضة‬       ‫⅛ نبضة‬                ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
 ‫عدد ‪ 4‬نبضات‬       ‫¼ نبضة‬                ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
 ‫عدد ‪ 8‬نبضات‬       ‫½ نبضة‬                ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬          ‫عدد ‪ 1‬نبضة‬              ‫اللوحة ‪5‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬          ‫عدد ‪ 2‬نبضة‬              ‫اللوحة ‪6‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬          ‫عدد ‪ 4‬نبضات‬             ‫اللوحة ‪7‬‬
      ‫‪-‬‬          ‫عدد ‪ 8‬نبضات‬             ‫اللوحة ‪8‬‬




                       ‫‪58‬‬
                                                 ‫وضع ‪Stems‬‬

‫يتيح لك وضع ‪ Stems‬فصل المقطع إلى أربعة أجزاء مختلفة (أصوات‬
                                       ‫وآالت)‪ ،‬تسمى "‪."stems‬‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى وضع ‪ ،Stems‬اضغط على ‪ .STEMS 3‬يظل‬
                             ‫ضوء زر ‪ STEMS 3‬مضيئًا‪.‬‬
‫‪ .2‬كل اللوحات من ‪ 1‬إلى ‪ 4‬مرتبطة مع ‪ .stem‬إليقاف تشغيل‬
       ‫‪ ،stem‬اضغط على اللوحة المقابلة‪ .‬ينطفئ ضوء اللوحة‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬الستئناف تشغيل ‪ ،stem‬اضغط على اللوحة المقابلة‪ .‬تضيء‬
                                                    ‫اللوحة‪.‬‬


                                                        ‫‪:Stems‬‬
            ‫‪Stem‬‬                 ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص الدوار ‪2‬‬

           ‫األصوات‬                          ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
             ‫اللحن‬                          ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
            ‫الجهير‬                          ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
            ‫الطبول‬                          ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬




                            ‫‪59‬‬
‫عند تمكين ‪ stems‬في مقطع ألول مرة‪ ،‬ال يكون الفصل دائمً ا فوريًا‪.‬‬
‫قد يستغرق ذلك بضع دقائق‪ ،‬بينما يحلل برنامج ‪ DJ‬المقطع وينشئ‬
               ‫األجزاء المختلفة (األصوات‪ ،‬اللحن‪ ،‬الجهير‪ ،‬الطبول)‪.‬‬


‫ينبغي أن تتذكر ترك وقت كافٍ بين اللحظة التي تفصل فيها ‪stems‬‬
‫واللحظة التي تُشغِّ ّلها فيها‪ .‬بمجرد إنشاء األجزاء المختلفة لـ ‪،stems‬‬
                                      ‫يتم تشغيل ‪ stems‬بشكل فوري‪.‬‬


                   ‫يلزم وجود كمبيوتر قوي الستخدام وضع ‪.Stems‬‬




                                 ‫‪60‬‬
                                               ‫وضع ‪Sampler‬‬

‫العينة هي صوت قصير يتم تشغيله على المقطع الذي يتم تشغيله حاليًا‪:‬‬
   ‫يمكن تشغيله إما مرة واحدة (‪ )jingle‬أو بشكل متكرر (حلقة تكرار)‪.‬‬


‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬تتيح لك اللوحات من ‪ 1‬إلى ‪ 8‬تشغيل العينات الثماني‬
           ‫الموجودة في أول سطرين من جامع العينات متعدد الطبقات‪.‬‬
‫لعرض جامع العينات متعدد الطبقات‪ ،‬حدد ‪2Decks Horizontal +‬‬
‫‪ 2 Samplers‬في القائمة المنسدلة ضمن الجزء العلوي األيسر من‬
                                          ‫الشاشة في ‪.DJUCED‬‬


     ‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬تتيح لك اللوحات من ‪ 1‬إلى ‪ 4‬تشغيل عينة‪.‬‬
               ‫فوق ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬      ‫لعرض لوحة العينات‪ ،‬انقر‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى وضع ‪ ،Sampler‬اضغط على ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
                       ‫يظل ضوء زر ‪ SAMPLER 4‬مضيئًا‪.‬‬
                              ‫‪ .2‬لتشغيل عينة‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬إليقاف تشغيل عينة‪ ،‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬واللوحة المقابلة في‬
                                                ‫الوقت نفسه‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪61‬‬
                                                       ‫الوضع ‪5‬‬




             ‫ال يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬بالوضع ‪.)TonePlay( 5‬‬
‫تقدم ‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬بجانب برنامج ‪ Pitch 'n Time‬المساعد‪،‬‬
 ‫وضع ‪ Pitch Play‬الذي يعمل باستخدام نفس مبدأ وضع ‪.TonePlay‬‬


‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 5‬مع وضع ‪ .TonePlay‬يتيح لك هذا‬
               ‫الوضع إعادة تشغيل نقطة ‪ Hot Cue‬بنغمات مختلفة‪.‬‬


          ‫‪ .1‬قم بتمكين وضع ‪ ،Hot Cue‬ثم حدد نقطة ‪.Hot Cue‬‬
‫‪ .2‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،5‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‪ HOT CUE 1‬في‬
                    ‫الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.HOT CUE 1‬‬
‫‪ .3‬لتعديل نغمة نقطة ‪ ،Hot Cue‬اضغط على إحدى اللوحات من ‪2‬‬
                                                    ‫إلى ‪.8‬‬
             ‫‪ .4‬للعودة إلى النغمة األصلية‪ ،‬اضغط على اللوحة ‪.1‬‬




                             ‫‪62‬‬
                                    ‫تعديل النغمة‪:‬‬

    ‫نغمة‬              ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص‬
                             ‫الدوار ‪2‬‬
‫النغمة األصلية‬               ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
    ‫‪1+‬‬                       ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
    ‫‪2+‬‬                       ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
    ‫‪3+‬‬                       ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬
     ‫‪1-‬‬                      ‫اللوحة ‪5‬‬
     ‫‪2-‬‬                      ‫اللوحة ‪6‬‬
     ‫‪3-‬‬                      ‫اللوحة ‪7‬‬
     ‫‪4-‬‬                      ‫اللوحة ‪8‬‬




                 ‫‪63‬‬
                                                          ‫الوضع ‪6‬‬




                            ‫ال يتميز ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬بالوضع ‪.6‬‬


‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 6‬مع وضع ‪ .PadFX‬يتيح لك هذا‬
‫الوضع التحكم في التأثيرات الموجودة في حامل التأثيرات باستخدام‬
                                                           ‫اللوحات‪.‬‬
‫المؤثر هو مرشح أو مجموعة مرشحات يتم تطبيقها على مقطع لتعديل‬
                                             ‫صوته (صدى‪ ،‬دوي‪.)...‬‬


                             ‫‪.‬‬        ‫لعرض حامل التأثيرات‪ ،‬انقر فوق‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،6‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬و‪ LOOP 2‬في‬
                           ‫الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.LOOP 2‬‬
                              ‫‪ .2‬للقيام بإجراء‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬لتعطيل أحد التأثيرات‪ ،‬اضغط على اللوحة المقابلة (اللوحة من ‪1‬‬
                                                       ‫إلى ‪.)3‬‬




                                 ‫‪64‬‬
                             ‫اإلجراءات المحتملة‪:‬‬
                              ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص الدوار ‪2‬‬
         ‫التأثيرات‬
    ‫تأثير ‪ 1‬في الحامل‬                ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
    ‫تأثير ‪ 2‬في الحامل‬                ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
    ‫تأثير ‪ 3‬في الحامل‬                ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
‫لعرض‪/‬إخفاء حامل التأثيرات‬            ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬
 ‫تغيير التأثير ‪ 1‬في الحامل‬           ‫اللوحة ‪5‬‬
 ‫تغيير التأثير ‪ 2‬في الحامل‬           ‫اللوحة ‪6‬‬
 ‫تغيير التأثير ‪ 3‬في الحامل‬           ‫اللوحة ‪7‬‬
            ‫‪-‬‬                        ‫اللوحة ‪8‬‬




                     ‫‪65‬‬
                                                       ‫الوضع ‪7‬‬




‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 7‬مع وضع ‪ .Slicer Loop‬في‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 7‬مع وضع‬
                                               ‫‪.Manual Loop‬‬


‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 7‬مع وضع ‪ .Slicer Loop‬يتيح لك‬
            ‫هذا الوضع تقسيم حلقة التكرار النشطة إلى ثمانية أقسام‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،)Slicer Loop( 7‬اضغط على ‪SHIFT‬‬
       ‫و‪ STEMS 3‬في الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.STEMS 3‬‬
       ‫‪ .2‬لتشغيل قسم كحلقة متكررة‪ ،‬اضغط باستمرار على لوحة‪.‬‬
                    ‫‪ .3‬إليقاف تشغيل قسم‪ ،‬حرر اللوحة المقابلة‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪66‬‬
‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 7‬مع وضع‬
        ‫‪.‬‬   ‫‪ .Manual Loop‬يتيح لك هذا الوضع تمكين حلقة تكرار يدويًا‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،)Manual Loop( 7‬اضغط على ‪SHIFT‬‬
        ‫و‪ STEMS 3‬في الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.STEMS 3‬‬
                                  ‫‪ .2‬للقيام بإجراء‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬


                                                  ‫اإلجراءات المحتملة‪:‬‬

                      ‫التأثيرات‬                     ‫القرص الدوار‬
                                                        ‫‪2/1‬‬
 ‫الضغط للمرة األولى‪ :‬لتعيين نقطة اإلدخال (‪)IN‬‬         ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
 ‫الضغط للمرة الثانية‪ :‬لتعديل نقطة اإلدخال (‪)IN‬‬

   ‫الضغط للمرة األولى‪ :‬لتحديد نقطة اإلخراج‬             ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
                      ‫(‪)OUT‬‬
   ‫الضغط للمرة الثانية‪ :‬لتعديل نقطة اإلخراج‬
                      ‫(‪)OUT‬‬

             ‫تمكين‪/‬تعطيل حلقة التكرار‬                  ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
 ‫ينقل رأس التشغيل إلى بداية حلقة التكرار‪ ،‬وكما‬         ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬
        ‫يش ِّغّل حلقة التكرار (‪)Reloop‬‬

            ‫لزيادة‪/‬تقليل طول حلقة التكرار‬               ‫مش ِّفّر‬
                                                   ‫‪AUTOLOOP‬‬




                                  ‫‪67‬‬
                                                        ‫الوضع ‪8‬‬




‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 8‬مع وضع ‪ .BeatJump‬في‬
‫‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 8‬مع وضع‬
                                           ‫‪.Scratch Banks‬‬


‫في ‪ ،DJUCED‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 8‬مع وضع ‪ .BeatJump‬يتيح لك هذا‬
                            ‫الوضع إجراء قفزة دقيقة في المقطع‪.‬‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،)BeatJump( 8‬اضغط ‪SHIFT‬‬
  ‫و‪ SAMPLER 4‬في الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
                           ‫‪ .2‬إلجراء قفزة‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬


                                                      ‫طول القفزة‪:‬‬

             ‫القفز‬              ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص الدوار ‪2‬‬

       ‫العودة نبضة واحدة‬                   ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
       ‫التقدم نبضة واحدة‬                   ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
         ‫العودة نبضتين‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
         ‫التقدم نبضتين‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬
        ‫العودة ‪ 4‬نبضات‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪5‬‬
        ‫التقدم ‪ 4‬نبضات‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪6‬‬
        ‫العودة ‪ 8‬نبضات‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪7‬‬
        ‫التقدم ‪ 8‬نبضات‬                     ‫اللوحة ‪8‬‬

                           ‫‪68‬‬
‫في ‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Pro‬يتوافق الوضع ‪ 8‬مع وضع‬
‫فورا على‬
     ‫‪ .Scratch Banks‬يتيح لك هذا الوضع تحميل عينة خدش ً‬
‫المزودة‬
  ‫ّ‬     ‫القرص الدوار إلضافة خدش على األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
‫بمحرك بدالً من المقطع الذي يتم تشغيله حاليًا‪ ،‬ثم العودة بسرعة إلى‬
                                       ‫المقطع الذي يتم تشغيله حاليًا‪.‬‬
      ‫في ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬      ‫لعرض لوحة عينات الخدش‪ ،‬انقر فوق‬


‫‪ .1‬للوصول إلى الوضع ‪ ،)Scratch Banks( 8‬اضغط ‪SHIFT‬‬
  ‫و‪ SAMPLER 4‬في الوقت نفسه‪ .‬يومض زر ‪.SAMPLER 4‬‬
                         ‫‪ .2‬لتشغيل عينة خدش‪ ،‬اضغط على لوحة‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬إليقاف تشغيل عينة خدش والعودة إلى المقطع الذي تم تشغيله‬
     ‫سابقًا‪ ،‬اضغط على ‪ SHIFT‬واللوحة المقابلة في نفس الوقت‪.‬‬


                                                            ‫العينات‪:‬‬
               ‫عينة‬                 ‫القرص الدوار ‪ / 1‬القرص الدوار ‪2‬‬

              ‫!‪Ahh‬‬                             ‫اللوحة ‪1‬‬
            ‫!‪Hey You‬‬                           ‫اللوحة ‪2‬‬
              ‫!‪Oww‬‬                             ‫اللوحة ‪3‬‬
              ‫!‪Yeah‬‬                            ‫اللوحة ‪4‬‬




                               ‫‪69‬‬
                                                         ‫إضافة خدش‬
‫يتشكل الخدش من إصدار تأثير صوتي من المقطع‪ ،‬عن طريق تدوير‬
                               ‫األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك‪.‬‬


‫المزودة بمحرك‪ ،‬وقم‬
             ‫ّ‬     ‫ضع سبابتك أعلى األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
                              ‫بحركات صغيرة وسريعة لليمين ولليسار‪.‬‬


                ‫يمكنك تكرار هذا الخدش للعديد من المرات لصنع إيقاع‪.‬‬




 ‫‪ −‬قبل الخدش أو المزج تأكد من وضع أسطوانة من اللباد بين‬
         ‫المزودة بمحرك وأسطوانة الفينيل‪.‬‬
                                   ‫ّ‬     ‫األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
 ‫‪ −‬عند وضع أسطوانة الفينيل على األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك‪،‬‬
      ‫ال تضغط عليها بالقوة‪ .‬وإال ستخاطر بإتالف مركز أسطوانة الفينيل‪.‬‬




                                  ‫‪70‬‬
                                                   ‫المرشحات‬
                 ‫يتيح لك تعديل مرشح المقطع بتخفيف ترددات معينة‪.‬‬


‫‪ −‬خفف من الترددات العالية (المعروفة بمرشح التمرير المنخفض أو‬
‫مرشح القطع المرتفع)‪ :‬أدر مقبض التحكم في المرشح (‪)FILTER‬‬
                                                   ‫لليسار‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬خفف من الترددات المنخفضة (المعروفة بمرشح التمرير العالي أو‬
‫مرشح القطع المنخفض)‪ :‬أدر مقبض التحكم في المرشح‬
                                        ‫(‪ )FILTER‬لليمين‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪71‬‬
                 ‫بطاقة صوت متعددة القنوات‬            ‫‪.6‬‬
‫تتضمن وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬بطاقة صوت متعددة‬
‫القنوات مدمجة‪ ،‬ما يسمح لك بتشغيل المزج الخاص بك على مكبرات‬
‫الصوت للجمهور (مخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت) ومراقبة المقطع‬
‫التالي الذي تقوم بتحضيره على سماعات الرأس لديك (مخرج سماعات‬
‫الرأس) واستخدام ميكروفون و‪/‬أو جهاز مج ّهز بمخرج على مستوى‬
                                  ‫الخط على أنه مصدر الصوت‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪72‬‬
         ‫مخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت (المخرج ‪)2-1‬‬
‫يجب أن تكون مكبرات الصوت النشطة لديك متصلة بأحد مخرجي‬
‫‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت الموجودة في الجزء الخلفي من وحدة التحكم‬
                                              ‫‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك‪.‬‬




‫من الممكن استخدام كال تنسيقي اإلخراج في وقت واحد ‪ -‬مثالً‪ ،‬عن‬
‫ثان بمكبرات‬
        ‫طريق توصيل زوج إخراج بنظام ‪ ،PA‬وزوج إخراج ٍ‬
                                              ‫صوت المراقبة‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪73‬‬
                      ‫مخرج سماعات الرأس (المخرج ‪)4-3‬‬
‫يجب أن تكون سماعات الرأس لديك متصلة بأحد مخرجي سماعات‬
‫الموجودين في الجزء األمامي من وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة‬     ‫الرأس‬
                                                          ‫بك‪.‬‬




‫بشكل افتراضي‪ ،‬في كل مرة يتم فيها توصيل وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة‬
‫بك‪ ،‬يتم تعيين مخرج سماعات الرأس إلى المخرج ‪ 4-3‬بحيث يمكنها أن‬
‫تعمل مع جميع برامج تنسيق الموسيقى المتوفرة في السوق – بما فيها‬
                    ‫®‪ DJUCED‬و‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬بشكل خاص‪.‬‬


‫لكن إذا كنت ترغب في استخدام مخرج سماعات الرأس الخاصة بوحدة‬
‫التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك لالستماع إلى الموسيقى على الكمبيوتر لديك‬
‫باستخدام ‪ iTunes‬مثالً‪ ،‬فيجب عليك توجيه المخرج ‪ 2-1‬إلى مخرج‬
‫الموجود أسفل‬        ‫سماعات الرأس‪ .‬للقيام بذلك‪ ،‬اضغط على زر‬
                              ‫مقياس شدة الصوت في ‪.MASTER‬‬

                             ‫‪74‬‬
‫ال نوصي بتوصيل زوجين من سماعات الرأس في الوقت نفسه (أي‬
‫توصيل أحدهما بموصل إخراج المقبس الصغير بمقاس ‪ 3.5‬مم‪،‬‬
‫واآلخر بموصل إخراج المقبس بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم)‪ .‬إذا لم يكن لكال‬
‫الزوجين من سماعات الرأس المعاوقة نفسها‪ ،‬فستكون لهما أحجام‬
                                             ‫إخراج مختلفة‪.‬‬




                           ‫‪75‬‬
                                           ‫مدخل الميكروفون‬
‫يجب أن يكون الميكروفون لديك متصالً بمدخل الميكروفون الموجود في‬
‫الجزء الخلفي من وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك‪ .‬مدخل الميكروفون‬
                                                      ‫متوازن‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪76‬‬
‫يمكنك توصيل ميكروفون متوازن أو غير متوازن‪ .‬تتمثل ميزة‬
‫استخدام ميكروفون متوازن في أنك ستستمتع بصوت أفضل‪ ،‬مع‬
‫تأثيرات أقل عند التنفس أو أي ضوضاء أخرى‪ .‬ينتج الميكروفون‬
‫المتوازن صوتًا أكثر وضوحً ا وقوة مع تأثيرات أقل عند التنفس‪ .‬وإذا لم يكن‬
‫الميكروفون المتوازن متصالً باستخدام كابل متوازن‪ ،‬فسيؤدي كابل‬
                           ‫الميكروفون إلى تقليل جودة صوت الميكروفون‪.‬‬


                             ‫كابل متوازن‬

    ‫‪( Tip‬طرف)‬
    ‫‪( Ring‬حلقة)‬

    ‫‪( Sleeve‬جراب)‬




                          ‫كابل غير متوازن‬

    ‫‪( Tip‬طرف)‬


    ‫‪( Sleeve‬جراب)‬




                                 ‫‪77‬‬
                                                ‫التوافق‬      ‫‪.7‬‬

                               ‫‪USB MIDI / USB Audio‬‬

‫تتميز وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬هذه بإمكانية التوصيل والتشغيل مباشرة كما‬
‫يمكنها العمل من دون برامج تشغيل من خالل ‪ DJUCED‬على أي‬
‫كمبيوتر شخصي أو كمبيوتر ‪Mac‬؛ حيث إنه يتوافق مع معايير ‪USB‬‬
                                              ‫‪ Audio‬و‪.USB MIDI‬‬



                           ‫لوحة تحكم ‪ ASIO‬و®‪Windows‬‬

‫‪Serato DJ‬‬        ‫الستخدام وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬مع‬
‫‪ ،Lite‬يجب عليك تثبيت برامج تشغيل ‪ .ASIO‬برامج تشغيل ‪ASIO‬‬
                                                         ‫متوفرة هنا‪:‬‬
    ‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul‬‬
                                                            ‫‪.set7/‬‬


‫إذا كنت تستخدم ‪ ،DJUCED‬يمكنك أيضً ا تنزيل برامج تشغيل ‪ASIO‬‬
     ‫لالستفادة من وقت االستجابة األقصر على جهاز الكمبيوتر الخاص بك‪.‬‬


‫تأتي برامج تشغيل ‪ ASIO‬مزوّ دة بلوحة تحكم يمكن الوصول إليها في‬
‫‪C:\Program‬‬        ‫شريط المهام على الكمبيوتر الشخصي‪ ،‬أو في دليل‬
‫‪.‬‬   ‫\‪Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2‬‬
‫تتيح لك هذه اللوحة ضبط إعدادات ‪ ASIO‬المختلفة بما في ذلك أحجام‬
                                      ‫المخزن المؤقت ووقت االستجابة‪.‬‬



                                 ‫‪78‬‬
                                          ‫لضبط إعدادات ‪:ASIO‬‬
        ‫‪ −‬عيّن حجم مخزن ‪ ASIO‬المؤقت على ‪ 4‬أو ‪ 8‬مللي ثانية‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬ابدأ بتشغيل برنامجك (على سبيل المثال‪ )DJUCED® :‬وحدد‬
    ‫برنامج التشغيل )‪:DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO‬‬




‫بمجرد أن يبدأ البرنامج باستخدام برنامج تشغيل ‪ ،ASIO‬لن يعود من‬
‫الممكن تعديل إعدادات ‪ ASIO‬في لوحة التحكم‪ .‬وهذا أمر طبيعي جدًا‪،‬‬
                  ‫ويشير إلى أن برنامج تشغيل ‪ ASIO‬قيد االستخدام‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪79‬‬
‫استخدم برنامجك واستمع بعناية بحثًا عن أي خطأ أو خلل محتمل في‬
‫الصوت (النقر أو الطقطقة) أو أي مشكالت تتعلق بزمن االستجابة‪ .‬في‬
‫حال حدوث أي خطأ أو خلل‪ ،‬سيتعين عليك زيادة حجم المخزن المؤقت‬
                                                  ‫لحل المشكالت‪.‬‬


‫أغلق البرنامج واضبط حجم مخزن ‪ ASIO‬المؤقت بمقدار قيمة واحدة‬
                                                ‫في المرة الواحدة‪:‬‬
                ‫‪ −‬قلل حجم المخزن المؤقت لتقليل وقت االستجابة‪.‬‬
‫‪ِّ −‬زد حجم المخزن المؤقت إذا الحظت أخطا ًء أو أشياء اصطناعية‬
                                               ‫في الصوت‪.‬‬


‫ستحتاج إلى تكرار هذا اإلجراء حتى تعثر على حجم المخزن المؤقت‬
                                                  ‫األمثل لنظامك‪.‬‬


                                         ‫تتوفر برامج التشغيل هنا‪:‬‬
‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontroli‬‬
                                                   ‫‪npulset7/‬‬




                              ‫‪80‬‬
                                          ‫تحديث البرنامج الثابت‬
‫تتميز وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك بوضع تحديث البرنامج الثابت‬
‫التلقائي‪ .‬ويتطلب هذا تثبيت برامج تشغيل ‪ Hercules‬واتباع التعليمات‬
          ‫التي تظهر على الشاشة‪ .‬وسيتم تحديث البرنامج الثابت تلقائيًا‪.‬‬


                                            ‫تتوفر برامج التشغيل هنا‪:‬‬
 ‫‪https://support.hercules.com/product/djcontrolinpul‬‬
                                                              ‫‪set7/‬‬


‫تتيح لك لوحة التحكم أيضً ا الوصول إلى هذه المعلومات وعرض‬
‫إصدارات برامج التشغيل المثبتة على الكمبيوتر الخاص بك في عالمة‬
‫التبويب ‪( ABOUT‬حول)‪ .‬ويجب أن تكون هذه المعلومات جاهزة إذا‬
                     ‫كنت تحتاج إلى االتصال بدعم ‪ Hercules‬الفني‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪81‬‬
                     ‫اختبار وحدة تحكم ‪ DJ‬في لوحة التحكم‬
‫في قسم ‪( ABOUT‬حول) بلوحة التحكم ‪،DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬
‫يمكنك اختبار صوت وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬وعناصر التحكم في ‪MIDI‬‬
‫المزودة‬
  ‫ّ‬     ‫واإلضاءة لديك‪ ،‬باإلضافة إلى األسطوانات الفونوغرافية‬
                                                       ‫بمحرك‪.‬‬


‫‪C:\Program‬‬     ‫للوصول إلى لوحة التحكم‪ ،‬انتقل إلى الدليل اآلتي‪:‬‬
‫\‪.Files\DJHERCULESMIX\Audio\DJ Console Series\cpl2‬‬


                                            ‫‪ .1‬اختبار الصوت‬

‫‪DJControl‬‬    ‫الختبار ما إذا كانت واجهة الصوت في وحدة التحكم‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬تنتج صوتًا (من دون استخدام برنامج ‪ DJ‬للقيام بذلك)‪،‬‬
‫انقر على أيقونة مكبر الصوت‪ .‬تتحول األيقونة إلى اللون األخضر في‬
‫أثناء االختبار‪ ،‬ويقوم البرنامج بتشغيل صوت على مخرجات ‪Master‬‬
                               ‫لمكبرات الصوت وسماعات الرأس‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪82‬‬
                             ‫‪ .2‬اختبار عناصر التحكم في ‪MIDI‬‬

‫الختبار ما إذا كانت عناصر التحكم في ‪ MIDI‬بوحدة التحكم‬
‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬قيد العمل (من دون استخدام برنامج ‪DJ‬‬
‫للقيام بذلك)‪ ،‬حاول استخدام األزرار أو عناصر التحكم األخرى التي‬
‫تحولت أيقونة موصل ‪ DIN‬إلى اللون األخضر‪ ،‬فيعني‬
                                          ‫تريد اختبارها‪ .‬إذا َّ‬
‫ذلك أن أمر ‪ MIDI‬تم استالمه وأن الزر أو عنصر التحكم اآلخر يعمل‬
                                                  ‫بشكل صحيح‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪83‬‬
                                              ‫‪ .3‬اختبار اإلضاءة‬

‫الختبار ما إذا كانت مصابيح ‪ LED‬الخاصة بوحدة التحكم ‪DJControl‬‬
‫‪ Inpulse T7‬قيد العمل (من دون استخدام برنامج ‪ DJ‬للقيام بذلك)‪ ،‬انقر‬
‫على أيقونة المصباح الكهربائي إلضاءة مصابيح ‪ LED‬الخاصة بوحدة‬
‫تتحول األيقونة إلى اللون األخضر في أثناء االختبار‪ ،‬وتضيء‬
                                                    ‫ّ‬    ‫التحكم‪.‬‬
                               ‫مصابيح ‪ LED‬الخاصة بوحدة التحكم‪.‬‬




 ‫يمكنك أيضً ا إضاءة جميع مصابيح ‪ LED‬الخاصة بوحدة التحكم‬
 ‫زري ‪ IN‬و‪OUT‬‬
          ‫‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬عن طريق الضغط على ّ‬
                ‫في الوقت نفسه على األقراص الدوارة على حد سواء‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪84‬‬
                 ‫‪ .4‬اختبار األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك‬

‫المزودة بمحرك الخاصة‬
               ‫ّ‬     ‫الختبار ما إذا كانت األسطوانات الفونوغرافية‬
‫بوحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬قيد العمل أم ال (من دون‬
‫استخدام برنامج ‪ DJ‬للقيام بذلك)‪ ،‬انقر على األيقونة الخاصة باألسطوانة‬
‫الفونوغرافية ‪ 1‬أو ‪ .2‬تتحول األيقونات الخاصة باألسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬
‫المقابلة وموصل ‪ DIN‬إلى اللون األخضر في أثناء االختبار‪ ،‬كما تتحرك‬
  ‫األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك (أي تدور) على وحدة التحكم‪.‬‬


                ‫اختبار األسطوانة الفونوغرافية المزوّ دة بمحرك رقم ‪:1‬‬




                ‫المزودة بمحرك رقم ‪:2‬‬
                               ‫ّ‬     ‫اختبار األسطوانة الفونوغرافية‬




                                ‫‪85‬‬
                       ‫وضع العرض التوضيحي‬                    ‫‪.8‬‬
‫يتوافر هذا الوضع عند توصيل وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك بمصدر‬
‫الطاقة ومصدر طاقة ‪ USB‬من دون كمبيوتر‪ ،‬كما يُستخدم في المتاجر‬
‫بشكل خاص‪ .‬في هذه الحالة‪ ،‬ال تكون وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬قيد التشغيل لكنها‬
‫ي يصدر أضواءً‬
            ‫ي‪ :‬ويظل التسلسل التجريب ّ‬
                                    ‫تكون في الوضع التجريب ّ‬
                                    ‫مختلفة بوحدة التحكم ويكرر نفسه‪.‬‬




                               ‫‪86‬‬
                                     ‫األسئلة الشائعة‬        ‫‪.9‬‬

‫ال يخرج أي صوت من سماعات الرأس الخاصة بي‪.‬‬                    ‫‪.1‬‬

‫تأكد من توصيل سماعات الرأس لديك بالجانب األمامي من وحدة التحكم‬
‫‪DJ‬؛ ألن وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك مزوّ دة ببطاقة صوت متعددة‬
          ‫القنوات مُ هيأة سلفًا للعمل مع ®‪ DJUCED‬و‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫بشكل افتراضي‪ ،‬يتم تمكين زري المتابعة عند تشغيل البرنامج ألول مرة‪.‬‬
‫يمكنك بعد ذلك تحديد أي من األقراص الدوارة التي تريد االستماع إليها‬
‫الموجود‬         ‫على سماعات الرأس الخاصة بك‪ ،‬أو الضغط على زر‬
‫أسفل مقياس شدة الصوت في ‪ MASTER‬لالستماع إلى نتائج المزيج‬
                                                       ‫الخاص بك‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪87‬‬
   ‫الصوت في سماعاتي مشوه أو منخفض للغاية‪.‬‬                ‫‪.2‬‬

‫تأكد من أن سماعات الرأس الخاصة بك تتميز بموصل ‪( TRS‬سماعات‬
   ‫رأس قياسية) وليس موصل ‪( TRRS‬سماعات رأس ‪ +‬ميكروفون)‪.‬‬


       ‫‪( Tip‬طرف)‬                         ‫‪( Tip‬طرف)‬
        ‫‪( Ring‬حلقة)‬                      ‫‪( Ring‬حلقة)‬
                                         ‫‪( Ring‬حلقة)‬
     ‫‪( Sleeve‬جراب)‬
                                         ‫‪( Sleeve‬جراب)‬




‫‪DJControl‬‬      ‫موصالت ‪ TRRS‬غير متوافقة مع وحدة التحكم‬
                                               ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬




                           ‫‪88‬‬
           ‫ال يخرج أي صوت من مكبرات الصوت‪.‬‬             ‫‪.3‬‬

‫تأكد من توصيل مكبرات الصوت بموصالت ‪ RCA‬أو ‪ XLR‬في الجانب‬
‫الخلفي لوحدة التحكم ‪DJ‬؛ ألن وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك مزوّ دة‬
‫ببطاقة صوت متعددة القنوات تم تكوينها سلفًا للعمل مع ®‪DJUCED‬‬
                                           ‫و‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬


‫الختبار (من دون استخدام برنامج ‪ )DJ‬ما إذا كانت واجهة الصوت‬
‫لوحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬تصدر صوتًا أم ال‪ ،‬يمكنك‬
‫عرض لوحة التحكم بوحدة التحكم ‪ .DJ‬انقر فوق عالمة التبويب‬
‫‪( ABOUT‬حول)‪ ،‬ثم انقر فوق رمز مكبر الصوت‪ .‬تتحول األيقونة إلى‬
                           ‫اللون األخضر في أثناء تشغيل الصوت‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪89‬‬
‫ال يخرج أي صوت من سماعات الكمبيوتر‬                           ‫‪.4‬‬
                                                ‫المحمول‪.‬‬
‫تكون وحدة التحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك مزوّ دة ببطاقة صوت متعددة القنوات‬
‫مهيأة سلفًا‪ .‬إذا كنت تريد استخدام مكبرات الصوت المضمنة في‬
                                    ‫الكمبيوتر المحمول الخاص بك‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ®‪ ،DJUCED‬قم بالوصول إلى اإلعدادات وحدد خيار ‪SEND‬‬
‫‪( MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS‬إرسال إشارة‬
                   ‫‪ MASTER‬إلى مكبرات صوت الكمبيوتر)‪.‬‬




‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬انتقل إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬وافتح عالمة التبويب‬
‫‪( Audio‬الصوت) وحدد خيار ‪Use Laptop Speakers‬‬
                       ‫(استخدام سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول)‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪90‬‬
‫ال يخرج أي صوت من سماعات الرأس أو‬                         ‫‪.5‬‬
                           ‫سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول‪.‬‬
‫بشكلٍ افتراضي‪ ،‬يأتي الصوت من مخرج ‪ Master‬لمكبرات الصوت‬
‫ي أال يخرج أي صوت من‬
                   ‫ومن مخرج سماعات الرأس‪ .‬لذلك من الطبيع ّ‬
                              ‫جهاز الكمبيوتر المحمول الخاص بك‪.‬‬


‫إذا كنت تريد استخدام مكبرات الصوت المضمنة في الكمبيوتر المحمول‬
                                                    ‫الخاص بك‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ®‪ ،DJUCED‬قم بالوصول إلى اإلعدادات وحدد خيار ‪SEND‬‬
‫‪( MASTER TO COMPUTER SPEAKERS‬إرسال إشارة‬
‫‪ MASTER‬إلى مكبرات صوت الكمبيوتر)‪ .‬يجب عليك توصيل‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬      ‫سماعات الرأس الخاصة بك بوحدة التحكم‬
                                            ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬




                             ‫‪91‬‬
‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬انتقل إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬وافتح عالمة التبويب‬
‫‪( Audio‬الصوت) وحدد خيار ‪Use Laptop Speakers‬‬
‫(استخدام سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول)‪ .‬يجب عليك توصيل‬
‫‪DJControl‬‬      ‫سماعات الرأس الخاصة بك بوحدة التحكم‬
                                             ‫‪.Inpulse T7‬‬




‫الختبار (من دون استخدام برنامج ‪ )DJ‬ما إذا كانت واجهة الصوت‬
‫لوحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬تصدر صوتًا أم ال‪ ،‬يمكنك‬
‫عرض لوحة التحكم بوحدة التحكم ‪ .DJ‬انقر فوق عالمة التبويب‬
‫‪( ABOUT‬حول)‪ ،‬ثم انقر فوق رمز مكبر الصوت‪ .‬تتحول األيقونة إلى‬
                            ‫اللون األخضر في أثناء تشغيل الصوت‪.‬‬




                              ‫‪92‬‬
‫أواجه مشكالت في جودة الصوت مع نظام التشغيل‬               ‫‪.6‬‬
                                        ‫®‪.Windows‬‬
       ‫مستوى صوت المقطع الصوتي الذي يتم تشغيله منخفض للغاية‬

‫مستوى الصوت الرئيسي لبرنامج ‪ DJ‬مستقل عن عناصر التحكم في‬
‫مستوى الصوت الموجودة على وحدة تحكم ‪ .DJ‬لذلك‪ ،‬طالما أن مستوى‬
‫الصوت الرئيسي لبرنامج ‪ DJ‬منخفض‪ ،‬فسيكون مستوى صوت مخرج‬
                                         ‫ضا‪.‬‬
                                           ‫ضا أي ً‬
                                                 ‫‪ Master‬منخف ً‬

          ‫تحقق من مستوى صوت برنامج ‪ DJ‬وقم برفعه إذا لزم األمر‪.‬‬

‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،DJUCED‬استخدم زر التحكم في مستوى الصوت‬
‫الموجود في الشريط الموجود في الجزء العلوي األيمن من‬
                                                  ‫النافذة‪.‬‬




‫‪ −‬في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬استخدم زر التحكم في مستوى الصوت‬
‫الموجود في الشريط الموجود في الجزء العلوي األيمن من‬
                                                  ‫النافذة‪.‬‬




                             ‫‪93‬‬
                  ‫مستوى الصوت في سماعات الرأس منخفض جدًا‬

‫في ‪ ،Serato DJ Lite‬انتقل إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬وافتح عالمة التبويب‬
‫‪( Audio‬الصوت) وقم بإلغاء خيار (أي إلغاء تحديد) ‪Use Laptop‬‬
                ‫‪( Speakers‬استخدام سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول)‪.‬‬




                            ‫‪94‬‬
‫‪Use Laptop‬‬       ‫إذا كنت بحاجة إلى إبقاء وضع العالمة في مربع‬
‫‪( Speakers‬استخدام سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول) (أي إبقائه محددًا)‪،‬‬
‫فقم بتعيين بطاقة الصوت المدمجة في الكمبيوتر على أنها "سماعات‬
                                                        ‫الكمبيوتر"‪:‬‬
                            ‫‪ .1‬أغلق برنامج ‪.Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫‪ .2‬قم بالوصول إلى إعدادات نظام التشغيل ‪Windows‬‬

      ‫وانتقل إلى ‪( System‬النظام) ثم ‪( Sound‬الصوت)‪.‬‬
‫‪ .3‬ضمن ‪( Output‬اإلخراج)‪ ،‬حدد بطاقة الصوت المدمجة‬
‫في الكمبيوتر‪ .‬وبذلك لم يعد من الضروري تعيين وحدة‬
                  ‫تحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة بك كمخرج للصوت‪.‬‬




‫ربما يكون نظام التشغيل ®‪ Windows‬قد قام بتعيين وحدة تحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة‬
‫بك كبطاقة صوت لنظام التشغيل ®‪ .Windows‬وإذا احتفظت بهذا اإلعداد‪ ،‬فإن‬
‫إعداد ‪( Use Laptop Speakers‬استخدام سماعات الكمبيوتر المحمول)‬
‫يمكنه تشغيل مخرج ‪ Master‬على إخراج ‪ 4‬قنوات لوحدة تحكم ‪ DJ‬الخاصة‬
                               ‫بك (مخرج ‪ + Master‬سماعات الرأس)‪.‬‬




                                ‫‪95‬‬
                                                      ‫الصوت غير واضح‬

                                                        ‫في ®‪:DJUCED‬‬
‫نوصي باستخدام جهاز صوت ‪ .ASIO‬ومع جهاز ‪ ،WASAPI‬تكون‬
‫جودة الصوت جيدة بشكل عام‪ .‬ومع ذلك‪ ،‬قد يزيد وقت االستجابة وقد ال‬
                                                  ‫يكون الصوت واض ًحا‪.‬‬


‫قم بالوصول إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬وانقر فوق عالمة تبويب ‪( Audio‬الصوت) واِّخْ ت َرْ‬
‫)‪ DJControl Inpulse T7 ASIO (ASIO‬باعتباره ‪Audio device‬‬
                                                          ‫(جهاز الصوت)‪.‬‬




                                                  ‫في ‪:Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫انتقل إلى اإلعدادات‪ ،‬وافتح عالمة التبويب ‪( Audio‬الصوت) وقم بإلغاء‬
‫خيار (أي إلغاء تحديد) ‪( Use Laptop Speakers‬استخدام سماعات‬
                                                     ‫الكمبيوتر المحمول)‪.‬‬




              ‫‪.‬‬


                                   ‫‪96‬‬
‫ال يمكنني توصيل مكبرات صوت الوسائط المتعددة‬            ‫‪.7‬‬
‫بوحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬الخاصة‬
                                                    ‫بي‪.‬‬
‫إذا كانت موصالت مكبرات الصوت الخاصة بك مختلفة عن الموصالت‬
‫الموجودة على وحدة التحكم ‪ ،DJControl Inpulse T7‬فيمكنك استخدام‬
‫‪ RCA‬ثنائي لمحول ذي مقبس مصغر بمقاس ‪ 3.5‬مم (غير مضمن)‬
‫لالتصال بمكبرات الصوت متعددة القنوات و‪ XLR‬ثنائي لمحول ذي‬
‫مقبس بمقاس ‪ 6.35‬مم (غير مضمن) لالتصال بمكبرات صوت ‪ PA‬أو‬
              ‫ألي شكل محول آخر متوافق مع مكبرات الصوت لديك‪.‬‬
‫يمكنك أيضً ا توصيل مكبرات الصوت الخاصة بك بمخرج سماعات‬
‫الرأس ومخرج المسار ‪ 2-1‬بالمخرج ‪ 4-3‬من خالل الضغط على زر‬
           ‫الموجود أسفل مقياس شدة الصوت في ‪.MASTER‬‬




‫هل وحدة التحكم ‪DJControl Inpulse T7‬‬                    ‫‪.8‬‬
               ‫متوافقة مع جهاز ‪ iPad‬أو ‪iPhone‬؟‬
‫ال‪ ،‬وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬غير متوافقة مع جهاز‬
‫‪ iPad‬وال ‪ .iPhone‬إنها تعمل فقط مع جهاز كمبيوتر شخصي أو جهاز‬
                                                       ‫‪.Mac‬‬




                             ‫‪97‬‬
‫كيف يمكنني توصيل وحدة التحكم ‪DJControl‬‬                      ‫‪.9‬‬
‫منفذ‬     ‫أو‬     ‫‪USB-C‬‬           ‫بمنفذ‬      ‫‪Inpulse T7‬‬
                                    ‫‪Thunderbolt 3‬؟‬
‫يمكنك توصيل وحدة التحكم ‪ DJControl Inpulse T7‬بمنفذ ‪USB-C‬‬
              ‫أو منفذ ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬بالطرق الثالث المختلفة اآلتية‪:‬‬
‫‪ −‬باستخدام محول (‪[ USB-C‬ذكر] أو ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬إلى‬
‫‪[ USB-A‬أنثى]) بين الكمبيوتر ووحدة تحكم ‪ .DJ‬يُرجى مالحظة‬
‫أن بعض المحوالت منخفضة التكلفة لن تعمل بشكل صحيح‪ ،‬ألنها‬
                                 ‫تقطع جز ًءا من مصدر الطاقة‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬باستخدام قاعدة توصيل (‪ USB-C‬أو ‪ )Thunderbolt 3‬بين‬
‫الكمبيوتر ووحدة التحكم ‪ .DJ‬تأكد من أن قاعدة التوصيل مزودة‬
‫بمصدر طاقة مخصص‪ ،‬ألن قاعدة التوصيل التي تعمل بالطاقة‬
‫فقط عبر منفذ ‪ USB-C‬أو ‪ Thunderbolt 3‬قد ال يحتوي على‬
                                                  ‫طاقة كافية‪.‬‬
‫‪ −‬من خالل استبدال كابل ‪ USB‬المرفق بكابل ‪ USB-C‬أو‬
                        ‫‪ Thunderbolt 3‬بكابل ‪.USB-B 2.0‬‬




                               ‫‪98‬‬
         ‫الدعم الفني‬
https://support.hercules.com




            99
                                                             ‫العالمات التجارية‬
‫®‪ Intel‬و™‪ Intel Core‬هما عالمتان تجاريتان أو عالمتان تجاريتان مسجلتان لشركة ‪Intel‬‬
                                                                             ‫‪.Corporation‬‬
‫‪ Microsoft® Windows® 10/11‬عالمة تجارية مسجلة أو عالمة تجارية لشركة ‪Microsoft‬‬
                                       ‫‪ Corporation‬في الواليات المتحدة و‪/‬أو في بلدان أخرى‪.‬‬
‫®‪ Mac‬و®‪ macOS‬هما عالمتان تجاريتان خاصتان بشركة ‪ ،Apple Inc.‬ومسجلتان في الواليات‬
                                                                          ‫المتحدة ودول أخرى‪.‬‬
‫‪ Serato‬و‪ Serato DJ Lite‬و‪ Serato DJ Pro‬هي عالمات تجارية مسجلة لشركة ‪Serato‬‬
                                                              ‫‪.Audio Research Limited‬‬
‫العالمة التجارية ‪ DJUCED‬والعناصر الرسومية لـ ‪ DJUCED‬مملوكة لشركة ‪Guillemot‬‬
                                                                              ‫‪.Corporation‬‬

             ‫‪ ASIO‬هي عالمة تجارية لشركة ‪.Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH‬‬
‫أما جميع العالمات التجارية واألسماء التجارية األخرى فهي مُ عترف بها بموجب هذه الوثيقة ومملوكة‬
‫ألصحابها المعنيين‪ .‬ويُرجى المالحظة أن الرسومات التوضيحية غير ملزمة‪ .‬وتخضع المحتويات‬
‫والتصاميم والمواصفات الموجودة في هذه الوثيقة للتغيير دون إشعار سابق‪ ،‬وقد تختلف من بلد إلى آخر‪.‬‬




                                          ‫‪100‬‬
                                                                ‫حقوق النشر‬
‫ال يجوز إعادة إنتاج أي جزء من هذا الدليل أو تلخيصه أو نقله أو نسخه أو تخزينه في نظام‬
‫استرداد‪ ،‬أو ترجمته إلى أي لغة أو إلى أي لغة كمبيوتر‪ ،‬بأي شكلٍ أو بأي وسيلة‪ ،‬سواء‬
‫إلكترونيًا أو ميكانيكيًا أو مغناطيسيًا أو يدويًا أو عن طريق النسخ الضوئي أو التسجيل أو‬
 ‫بأي طريقة أخرى‪ ،‬دون موافقة كتابية صريحة من شركة ‪.Guillemot Corporation S.A.‬‬




                                       ‫‪101‬‬
‫اتفاقية ترخيص المستخدم النهائي لبرنامجي‬
                     ‫®‪ DJUCED‬و‪Serato DJ Lite‬‬
‫يُرجى قراءة اتفاقية الترخيص التي يتم عرضها خالل تثبيت ®‪ DJUCED‬و ‪Serato DJ‬‬
                                                          ‫‪ Lite‬قراءة متأنية‪.‬‬




                                 ‫‪102‬‬
