
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
 English............................................................. 02-06
 Deutsch........................................................... 07-11
 Français........................................................... 12-16
 Español............................................................ 17-21
                                               Instruction Manual
                                                   CAUTION!
                                                                                              For  your own  safety,  please  read  this  operation manual
                                                                                                          carefully  before  initial  operation!  All  persons  involved  in
                                                                                               the   installation,   setting-up,  operation,  maintenance  and
                                                                                                     service  of  this  device  must  be  appropriately  qualified
                                                                                   and observe  this operation manual  in  detail.  This product
                                                                                              complies with the requirements of the applicable European
                                                                                   and national  regulations. Conformity has been proven. The
                                                                                                    respective statements and documents are deposited at the
                                                                                                manufacturer.
                                           Bedienungsanleitung
                                               ACHTUNG!
                                                                                         Lesen  Sie  sich vor der ersten Inbetriebnahme zur eigenen
                                                                                                      Sicherheit  diese  Bedienungsanleitung  sorgfältig  durch!  Alle
                                                                                              Personen, die mit der Aufstellung, Inbetriebnahme, Bedienung,
                                                                                  Wartung und Instandhaltung dieses Gerätes zu tun haben, müssen
                                                                                           entsprechend qualifiziert sein und diese Betriebsanleitung genau
                                                                                                beachten. Dieses Produkt erfüllt die Anforderungen der geltenden
                                                                                             europäischen und nationalen Richtlinien, die Konformität wurde
                                                                                           nachgewiesen, die entsprechenden Erklärungen und Unterlagen
                                                                                                   sind beim Hersteller hinterlegt
                                  Mode d‘emploi
                                                   ATTENTION!
                                                                                                    Pour votre propre sécurité, veuillez lire attentivement ce mode d‘emploi
                                                                                                          avant  la  première  utilisation   !  Toutes  les  personnes  chargées de
                                                                                                                                          l‘installation, de la mise en service, de l‘utilisation, de l‘entretien et la main­
                                                                                                        tenance de cet appareil doivent posséder les qualifications nécessaires et
                                                                                                                 respecter les instructions de ce mode d‘emploi. Ce produit est conforme
                                                                                                 aux directives européennes et nationales, la conformité a été certifiée et
                                                                                                                               les déclarations et documents sont en possession du fabricant.
                                      Manual de instrucciones
                                                          ¡ATENCIÓN!
                                                                               En aras de su propia seguridad, ¡lea detenidamente este manual
               USB                                                                                               HIGH // VOCALS                     de instrucciones antes de la primera puesta en marcha! Todas
                                                                                                              las personas relacionadas con el montaje, la puesta en marcha,                                                                                                                                     DEUTSCH                                                                                                                     la operación, el mantenimiento y la reparación de este equipo
                                                                                    deben  estar  correctamente  cualificadas y haber  leído con
                                                                                                atención este manual de instrucciones. Este producto cumple
                                                                                     LOW // HARMONIC                     con los requisitos de las directivas europeas y nacionales, se ha
                                                                                   comprobado la conformidad y las declaraciones y los documentos
                                                                                                correspondientes están en posesión del fabricante.


                                                                                                                                     NEURAL MIX     NEURAL MIX
                                                                                                                    FILTER // DRUMS                  WARNING!
                                                                                            To prevent fire or avoid an electric shock do not expose the
                                                                                                device to water or fluids! Never open the housing!
               iOS

                                                                                                                             FX PARAM        WARNUNG!
                                                            Um Feuer oder einen elektrischen Schock zu vermeiden, setzen
                                                                                                        Sie dieses Gerät nicht Wasser oder Flüssigkeiten aus! Öffnen Sie
                                                                                                                                                     FX SELECT           niemals das Gehäuse!

                                                                               ATTENTION !
                                                      PERFORMANCE MODES                                                      Afin d‘éviter un incendie ou une décharge électrique, veillez à
                                                                                                             tenir cet appareil à l‘écart des liquides et de l‘humidité ! N´ouvrez
                                                                                                 jamais le boîtier !

                                                                                   ¡ADVERTENCIA!
                                                                                          Para evitar incendios o descargas eléctricas, ¡no sumerja este
                                                                                            equipo en agua u otras sustancias líquidas! ¡Nunca abra la
                                                                                                      carcasa!

                                                                                   Keep information for further reference!
                                                                                         Für weiteren Gebrauch aufbewahren!
                                                                                        Gardez ces instructions pour des utilisations ultérieurs!
                                                                                                ¡Conservar para su uso posterior!
                                                                                               www.reloop.com

                                                                                                    Reloop Trademark
                                                                                                              Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG
                                                                                                                   Schuckertstr. 28
                                                                                            48153 Muenster / Germany
REV. 2.0                                                            © 2026
                                                                                                                                                         1

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
                 CAUTION! For your own safety, please read this operation manual carefully before initial operation! All persons involved in the installation, setting-
                    up, operation, maintenance and service of this device must be appropriately qualified and observe this operation manual in detail. This product
                   complies with the requirements of the applicable European and national regulations. Conformity has been proven. The respective statements and
                 documents are deposited at the manufacturer.
                    Congratulations on purchasing your Reloop Buddy. Thank you for placing your trust in our disc jockey technology. Before operating this equipment,
              we ask you to carefully study and observe all instructions.

                   Please remove the Reloop Buddy from its packaging. Check before initial operation to make sure that the device has not been visibly damaged
                   during transport. If you detect any damage to the power cable or the casing, do not operate the device. Contact your specialised dealer.

         SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS

                 CAUTION! Please exercise particular caution when handling power voltage. This voltage rating may lead to a critical electrical shock! Any damage
                  caused by the non-observance of this operation manual excludes any warranty claims. The manufacturer is not liable for any damage to property
                   or for personal injury caused by improper handling or non-observance of the safety instructions.
               WARNING! To prevent fire or avoid an electric shock do not expose the device to water or fluids! Never open the housing!

                              -  This dvevice left the factory in perfect condition. To maintain this condition and to ensure a risk-free operation the user must observe the safety
                        instructions and warnings contained in this operation manual.
                              -  For reasons of safety and certification (CE) the unauthorised conversion and/or modification of the device is prohibited. Please note that in the
                     event of damage caused by the manual modification to this device any warranty claims are excluded.
                              -  The inside of the device does not contain any parts which require maintenance, with the exception of wear parts that can be exchanged from
                      the outside. Qualified staff must carry out maintenance, otherwise the warranty does not apply!
                              -  The fuse must exclusively be exchanged against fuses of the same class, with the same trigger features and nominal current rating.
                              -  Ensure that the power will only be supplied after the device has been fully set up.
                              -  Only use cables that comply with regulations. Observe that all jacks and bushes are tightened and correctly hooked up. Refer to your dealer, if
                   you have any questions.
                              -  Ensure that when setting up the product, the mains cable is not squashed or damaged by sharp edges.
                              -  Prevent the mains cable from coming into contact with other cables! Exercise great care when handling mains cables and connections. Never
                     touch these parts with wet hands!
                              -  Connect the power cable exclusively to appropriate shock-proof outlets. The only supply point to be used is a supply outlet in accordance with
                        specifications of the public supply network.
                              -  Disconnect the device from the supply outlet when not in use and before cleaning! Be sure to hold the mains plug by the body. Never pull the mains cord!
                              -  Position the device on a horizontal and stable low-flame base.
                              -  Avoid any concussions or violent impact when installing or operating the device.
                              - When selecting the location of installation, make sure that the device is not exposed to excessive heat, humidity and dust. Be sure that no cables
                              lie around openly. You will endanger your own safety and that of others!
                              - Do not rest any containers filled with liquid that could easily spill onto the device or in its immediate vicinity. If, however, fluids should access
                      the inside of the device, immediately disconnect the mains plug. Have the device checked by a qualified service technician before re-use.
                 Damage caused by fluids inside the device is excluded from warranty.
                              - Do not operate the device under extremely hot (in excess of 35° C) or extremely cold (below 5° C) conditions. Keep the device away from direct
                     exposure to the sun and heat sources such as radiators, ovens, etc. (even during transport in a closed vehicle). Always ensure sufficient ventilation.
                              -  The device must not be operated after being taken from a cold environment into a warm environment. The condensation caused hereby mayENGLISH              destroy your device. Do not switch on or operate the device until it has reached ambient temperature!
                              -  Controls and switches should never be treated with spray-on cleaning agents and lubricants. This device should only be cleaned with a damp
                          cloth. Never use solvents or cleaning fluids with a petroleum base for cleaning.
                              - When relocating, the device should be transported in its original packaging.
                              - When starting operation, the crossfaders and volume controls of your amplifier must be set to minimum level. Bring the loudspeaker switches
                        into the “OFF” position. Wait between 8 to 10 seconds before increasing the volume to avoid damage to loudspeakers.
                              -  Devices supplied by voltage should not be left in the hands of children. Please exercise particular care when in the presence of children.
                              -  At commercial facilities the regulations for the prevention of accidents as stipulated by the organization of professional associations must be observed.
                              -  At schools, training facilities, hobby and self-help workshops the operation of the device must be monitored with responsibility by trained staff.
                              -  Keep this operation manual in a safe place for later reference in the event of questions or problems.

         APPLICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS

                              -  This device is a 2-channel DJ controller, which can regulate and mix audio signals. The device needs to be connected to a tablet or computer
                   and an audio amplifier or active speakers.
                              -   If the device is used for any other purposes than those described in the operation manual, damage can be caused to the product, leading to the
                       exclusion of warranty rights. Moreover, any other application that does not comply with the specified purpose harbours risks such as short
                            circuit, fire, electric shock, etc.
                              -  The serial number determined by the manufacturer must never be removed to uphold the warranty rights.

        MAINTENANCE

                              -  Check the technical safety of the device regularly for damage to the mains line or the casing, as well as for wear of wear parts such as rotary
                   and sliding switches.
                              -   If it is to be assumed that the safe operation is no longer feasible, then the device must be disconnected and secured against accidental use.
                   Always disconnect the mains plug from the outlet!
                              -   It must be assumed that a safe operation is no longer feasible, if the device bears visible defects, if the device no longer functions, following
                      longer storage under unfavourable conditions or after major transport stress.





  2

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
CONTROLS

                                                  1





                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OUT        USB                                                                                               HIGH // VOCALS    7               HIGH // VOCALS
                            2           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MASTER
                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOL
                                                                                  LOW // HARMONIC                         LOW // HARMONIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MASTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MIX                             3     9     3                                                                                                                                                                                       CUE


                                                                                                                                  NEURAL MIX     NEURAL MIX
                                                                                                                FILTER // DRUMS                                   FILTER // DRUMS                                                                                                                                                                              VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUE
         iOS                           4     10     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEADPHONES
               12                                                                       FX PARAM                       12
                                                  11
      13                 14                                                   FX SELECT             14                 13

                                                   PERFORMANCE MODES          5           5                                    PERFORMANCE MODES
 15      16                                          16                       15



                               6

          17   18    19   20                           17    18    19   20
RIGHT PANEL                                                                                                            ENGLISH
                                                      21                                                22 23 24   25
LEFT PANEL





   29    26  27         28

DESIGNATION

1.   Docking Station                                                          21. Headphones Out (3.5 mm Jack)
2.  Equalizer (2-band)                                                 22. Headphones Cue Volume
3.   Filter                                                             23. Headphones Cue Mix
4.  FX-Paddle                                                         24. Master Volume
5.  Linefader                                                         25. Master Out (RCA)
6.  Crossfader                                                        26. USB-B PC/Power Port
7.  Browse Encoder                                                        27. USB Source Switch
8.  Track Load Buttons                                               28. USB-A-iOS-Port
9.  Headphones Cue Buttons                                          29. Kensington Lock
10. FX Control
11. FX Parameter Buttons
12.  Jog Wheel                         SCOPE OF DELIVERY:
13. Loop Encoder
                                                                                                             -  Reloop Buddy
14.  Shift Buttons
                                                                                                             - RCA Cable
15.  Pitch Fader
                                                                                                             - USB Cable
16. Performance Pads
                                                                                                             -  Instruction Manual
17. Mode Buttons
18. Sync Buttons
19. Cue Buttons
20. Play/Pause Buttons

                                                                                                             3

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
         CONNECTING THE RELOOP BUDDY

              MASTER OUT
                  Connect your main system (e.g. active speakers) to Master Out (RCA) -25-.

               HEADPHONES/CUE OUT
                  Connect your headphones to Headphones Out -23-.

              USB CONNECTION
                            If you want to use your Reloop Buddy with a computer, connect it to the USB-B PC/Power Port -26- and set the USB Source Switch -27- to PC.
                            If you want to use an iOS/iPadOS/Android device, connect your Reloop Buddy to the USB-A iOS Port -28- and select iOS via the USB Source Switch -27-.





                                                                                                                                      USB-A




                                      5V/2A


                                    USB-A
                                          Lightning/USB-C                                                Smartphone         SETUP                                                                            Laptop
                                                                                                      Tablet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETUP
                                                                                           PC
                                              USB-B                                                                                  USB-B              /                                                                                                                                                                                   ANDROID                                             Switch to               /                Switch to                                           MAC
                                              iOS Mode                              OS             PC Mode


                                             USB-A                                                                                                      iPAD

                          /
                                                                             iOS




                   djay Pro INSTALLATION & CONNECTION
                   djay Pro iPad/iPhone installation:
                 You can purchase the djay Pro app from the App Store as described below.

                              -  Purchase and download the djay Pro app from the App Store.
                              -  Place your iPad/iPhone into the Docking Station -1- of the Reloop Buddy.
                              -  Set the USB Source Switch -27- to iOS.
                              -  Connect your iOS power cable to the Reloop Buddy‘s USB-A iOS Port -28- as well as to your iOS device.ENGLISH                  -  Open the previously downloaded djay Pro app.

                  Your Reloop Buddy will be recognized automatically and can now be operated.

                   djay Android installation:
                            If you want to operate an Android device with the Reloop Buddy, please first check if your device is compatible. For more information concerning
                      this please refer to the app description.

                              -  Purchase and download your djay app from the Google PlayStore.
                              -  Place your tablet into the Docking Station -1- of the Reloop Buddy.
                              -  Set the USB Source Switch -27- to iOS.
                              -  Connect your Android power cable to the Reloop Buddy‘s USB-A iOS Port -28- as well as to your Android device.
                              -  Open the previously downloaded djay app

                  Your Reloop Buddy will be recognized automatically and can now be operated.

                    Attention! Computer and iOS/Android devices cannot be used simultaneously.
                 Always connect the supplied USB cable to the USB-B PC/Power Port -26- and connect it to a USB power supply. Please only use the original
                power cable of your tablet / smartphone or use an appropriate power supply unit (5V, 2.1A) to ensure a sufficient power supply. Alternatively
                 you can purchase the following USB power supply as spare part: Item no. 243382.

         OPERATION

                           1. DOCKING STATION
                 You can place your iOS/Android device into the Docking Station -1- .

                      2. EQUALIZER
                 With the 2-band equalizer -2- you can adjust the treble and bass for channels 1 & 2.

                      3. FILTER
                  Channels 1 & 2 dispose of an individual filter -3-.
                     In the 12 o‘clock position the filter is switched off. Turning the Filter -3- clockwise creates a high-pass effect, turning it counter-clockwise creates
                  a low-pass effect.




  4

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
4. FX PADDLE
Use the FX Paddles -4- to activate the previously selected effect.
In centre position, the effect is switched off. If you lock the paddle in forward position, it will remain permanently on until it is reset to the centre
position again. If you only want to use the effect temporarily, you can retract the paddle for the desired effect duration and upon releasing the FX
Paddle -4-, it will automatically return to the centre position.

NOTE You can choose from the effects included in the software, which can be controlled via the 1 FX bank.

5. LINEFADER
With the Linefaders -5- you can adjust the output volume for channels 1 & 2

6. CROSSFADER
The Crossfader -6- switches between the left and right channel.

7. BROWSE ENCODER
Use the Browse Encoder -7- to navigate through your music libraries.
Press the Browse Encoder -7- to confirm your selection.
SHIFT To go back one step in the menu layer, press Shift -14- + Browse Encoder -7-.

8. TRACK LOAD BUTTONS
Press the Track Load button -8- A or B to assign a track to the desired deck.

9. HEADPHONES CUE BUTTONS
With the Headphones Cue Buttons -9- you can monitor the respective audio signal of channels 1 & 2.

SHIFT NOTE
In Neural Mix™ mode you control the Algoriddim Neural Mix™ functions.
The Neural Mix™ EQ mode is activated by pressing Shift -14- + the Headphone Cue Button -9- of the desired channel.
This will divide the selected track into 3 stems, which can be controlled individually via the 2-Band Equalizer -2- and Filter -3-.
-  High = Vocals
-  Low = Harmonic
-  Filter = Drums

10. FX CONTROL
With the FX Control -10- you can adjust the FX intensity (dry/wet) of the selected effect.
In dry position the effect is turned off. The further you turn the FX Control -10- clockwise to wet position, the more the effect‘s intensity increases.

11. FX PARAMETER BUTTONS (FX SELECT)
With the Parameter Buttons -11- you control the parameter functions, depending on the active mode (e.g. FX parameter adjustment).
SHIFT By pressing Shift -14- + FX Parameter Buttons -11- you can choose between the desired effects.

12. JOG WHEEL
The Jog Wheel -12- is permanently active in vinyl/scratch mode. The surface is touch-sensitive and reacts to body tension. By turning the Jog
Wheel‘s edge -12- it is possible to perform a pitch bend.
Shift By pressing Shift -14- + turning the Jog Wheel -12- at the same time, you can perform the quick search function (fast scrolling through track).

13. LOOP ENCODER
By turning the Loop Encoder -13- you can select the loop‘s length (1/32-32 bars).
Pressing the Loop Encoder -13- activates the previously selected loop length, pressing it again deactivates the loop.                                                                                                                               ENGLISH
14. SHIFT
Pressing Shift -7- + a selected button activates the respective functions of the 2nd layer according to the labelling of the device.

NOTE The Shift Buttons -14- are dedicated to the respective deck.

15. PITCH FADER
The Pitch Faders -15- determine the track‘s tempo.

16. PERFORMANCE PADS
The Performance Pads -16- are colour-coded drum pads that trigger the selected performance mode.
The different performance modes can be activated by holding the Mode Button -17- and simultaneously pressing the selected Performance Pad
mode -16-.

THE FOLLOWING PERFORMANCE MODES ARE AVAILABLE:

-  Hot Cue Mode = Triggers the 8 available cue points per deck and the pad colours light up in the corresponding colours. SHIFT By pressing Shift
   -14- and the respective cue pad, the selected cue point will be deleted.
-  Auto Loop Mode = Each of the 8 performance pads has a different loop length. Pressing it will activate it immediately according to the length,
   pressing it again will deactivate auto loop.
-  Touch FX Mode = The drum pads have different instant effects that are activated by pressing the respective pad.
-  Sampler Mode = Triggers the respective sample in the sample bank using the 16 drum pads.
-  Slicer Mode = The slicer divides a track in 8 segments and spreads them across the 8 pads. Now it is possible to spontaneously remix a track
  by playing the various pad segments.
-  Bounce Loop Mode = Press one of the 8 pads to loop a track. The length varies from pad to pad.
-  Neural Mix™ Mode = In Neural Mix™ pad mode you control the Algoriddim Neural Mix™ functions via the drum pads. The drum pads are assigned
  as follows:
1.  Drum Solo On/Off = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
2.  Harmonic Solo On/Off = Mute Drum & Vocal
3.  Vocal Solo On/Off = Mute Drum &Harmonic
4.  Drum Swap On/Off (deactivates the drum stem of the selected channel and activates solo for the drum stem of the other channel)
5.  Drum Solo Hold = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
6.  Harmonic Solo Hold = Mute Drum & Vocal
7.   Vocal Solo Hold = Mute Drum &Harmonic
8.  Drum Swap Hold (deactivates the drum stem of the selected channel and activates solo for the drum stem of the other channel)
-  Looper-Mode = Triggers the Looper Sequencer in djay Pro.



                                                                                                             5

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
                        17. MODE BUTTONS
                   Pressing the Mode Button -17- activates the performance mode selection.
              Now you can select your desired performance mode via the respective drum pad.
                     (see also: 16. Performance Pads).

                      18. SYNC BUTTONS
                 Sync -18- allows the BPM value of one track to be automatically adjusted to the other deck. By pressing Sync -18- again, you deactivate the sync
                     function.

                      19. CUE BUTTONS
                 Use the Cue Buttons -19- to create and trigger a temporary cue point. This is represented by a white cue marker. If the Cue Button -19- is pressed
                   during playback, the playback stops and automatically jumps back to the set cue point (cue play mode). If you pause playback and then press the
                 Cue Button -19-, a new cue point is created at this track position (cue pause mode).

                   20. PLAY/PAUSE BUTTONS
                 The Play/Pause Buttons -20- start/pause the playback of the respective deck.

                      21. HEADPHONES CUE OUTPUT
                  Connect your headphones to the Headphones Cue Output -21- of the Reloop Buddy.

                   22. HEADPHONE VOLUME
                 Use the Headphones Cue Volume control -22- to adjust the volume of your headphones signal.

                   23. HEADPHONES CUE MIX
                 The Headphones Cue Mix control -23- mixes the volume balance between the channel and master signal via the headphones.
                              -  Left = Cue
                              -  Centre = 50/50 ratio
                              -  Right = Master

                   24. MASTER VOLUME
                 The Master Volume control -24- is used to adjust the master output volume.

                   25. MASTER OUT (RCA)
                  Your main sound system (e.g. active speakers) is connected to Master Out (RCA) -25- and controlled by the Master Volume control -24-.

                   26. USB-B PC/POWER PORT
                 Use the USB-B PC/Power Port -26- to connect a computer, as well as a USB power cable to charge your iOS/Android device via the Reloop Buddy.

                 Note If you want to use a computer, make sure that the USB Source Switch -27- is set to PC.

                     27. USB SOURCE SWITCH
                 Use the USB Source Switch -27- to switch between your desired USB mode (computer or iOS/Android-operation).

                   28. USB-A IOS PORT
                 The USB-A iOS Port -28- is used to connect an iOS/Android device.
                   Please additionally connect a USB power supply to the USB-B PC/Power Port -26-.

               NOTE If you want to use an iOS/Android device, make sure that the USB Source Switch -27- is set to iOS.

                   29. KENSINGTON LOCKENGLISH          The Kensington Lock -29- serves as anti-theft method for your Reloop Buddy.

          NOTE: djay Pro ON DIFFERENT PLATFORMS

                   Please note that the app feature scope may vary, depending on the platform being used. Please visit the djay App Store page on the respective
                   platform App Store to check which features are supported.

        MINIMUM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

                 You can check the current system requirements for iOS/iPadOS, Android, Mac or Windows at algoriddim.com.

                  Mac, iOS, iPadOS, iPhone, iPad and OS X are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
               Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
                       Intel (i3/i5/i7) and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
                  Android is a trademark of Google LLC in the United States and other countries.
                     DJAY®, DJAY PRO®, NEURAL MIX®, and ALGORIDDIM® are registered trademarks of Algoriddim GmbH in the United States and other countries.
              NEURAL MIX  is covered by patents in the United States and other countries, which are assigned to algoriddim GmbH and identified
                     at www.algoriddim.com/patents. Additional patents pending. Issued patents include without limitation:
               US Patent No. 10,887,033 B1, US Patent No. 11,216,244 B2, US Patent No. 11,347,475 B2, JP Patent No. 6926354 B1 18:13

         TECHNICAL DATA

                 Sound Card Resolution:...........................................................................24bit/48kHz
                  Frequency Response:...............................................................................20Hz-20kHz
                   S/Noise Ratio:.............................................................................................95db (USB)
                                    THD:..............................................................................................................<0.1%
                                   Power:..........................................................................................................DC-5V > 2A USB-B
                  Master Out:.................................................................................................RCA
                 Headphone Out:.........................................................................................3.5 mm (1/8 jack)
                                  Dimensions:................................................................................................325 x 220 x 48 mm (WxDxH)
                                   Weight:........................................................................................................1.042 kg





  6

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
ENGLISH





  7

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
               ACHTUNG! Lesen Sie sich vor der ersten Inbetriebnahme zur eigenen Sicherheit diese Bedienungsanleitung sorgfältig durch! Alle Personen, die mit
                   der Aufstellung, Inbetriebnahme, Bedienung, Wartung und Instandhaltung dieses Gerätes zu tun haben, müss1en entsprechend qualifiziert sein
                und diese Betriebsanleitung genau beachten. Dieses Produkt erfüllt die Anforderungen der geltenden europäischen und nationalen Richtlinien,
                    die Konformität wurde nachgewiesen, die entsprechenden Erklärungen und Unterlagen sind beim Hersteller hinterlegt.
                 Wir gratulieren Ihnen zum Kauf des Reloop Buddy. Vielen Dank, dass Sie unserer Diskjockey-Technologie Ihr Vertrauen schenken. Vor
                  Inbetriebnahme bitten wir Sie, alle Anweisungen sorgfältig zu studieren und zu befolgen.

               Nehmen Sie den Reloop Buddy aus der Verpackung. Bitte überprüfen Sie vor der ersten Inbetriebnahme, ob kein offensichtlicher Transportschaden
                       vorliegt. Sollten Sie Schäden am Stromkabel oder am Gehäuse entdecken, nehmen Sie das Gerät nicht in Betrieb und setzen Sie sich bitte mit Ihrem
                   Fachhändler in Verbindung.

         SICHERHEITSHINWEISE

               ACHTUNG! Seien Sie besonders vorsichtig beim Umgang mit der Netzspannung. Bei dieser Spannung können Sie einen lebensgefährlichen,
                    elektrischen Schlag erhalten! Bei Schäden, die durch Nichtbeachtung dieser Bedienungsanleitung verursacht werden, erlischt
                    jeder Gewährleistungsanspruch. Bei Sach- oder Personenschäden, die durch unsachgemäße Handhabung oder Nichtbeachtung der
                   Sicherheitshinweise verursacht werden, übernimmt der Hersteller keine Haftung.
              WARNUNG! Um Feuer oder einen elektrischen Schock zu vermeiden, setzen Sie dieses Gerät nicht Wasser oder Flüssigkeiten aus! Öffnen Sie
                   niemals das Gehäuse!
                              -  Dieses Gerät hat das Werk in einwandfreiem Zustand verlassen. Um diesen Zustand
                              -  zu erhalten und einen gefahrlosen Betrieb sicherzustellen, muss der Anwender unbedingt die Sicherheitshinweise und die Warnvermerke
                      beachten, die in dieser Gebrauchsanleitung enthalten sind.
                              -  Aus Sicherheits- und Zulassungsgründen (CE) ist das eigenmächtige Umbauen und/oder Verändern des Gerätes nicht gestattet. Beachten Sie
                           bitte, dass Schäden, die durch manuelle Veränderungen an diesem Gerät verursacht werden, nicht unter dem Gewährleistungsanspruch fallen.
                              -  Im Geräteinneren befinden sich keine zu wartenden Teile, ausgenommen die von außen austauschbaren Verschleißteile. Die Wartung darf nur
                   von fachkundigem Personal durchgeführt werden, ansonsten verfällt die Gewährleistung!
                              -  Die Sicherung darf nur gegen Sicherungen des gleichen Typs, der gleichen Auslösecharakteristik und Nennstromstärke ausgetauscht werden.
                              -  Stellen Sie sicher, dass die Stromversorgung erst nach dem Aufbau des Gerätes erfolgt.
                              -  Benutzen Sie nur vorschriftsmäßige Kabel. Achten Sie darauf, dass alle Stecker und Buchsen fest angeschraubt und richtig angeschlossen sind.
                      Bei Fragen wenden Sie sich bitte an Ihren Händler.
                              -  Stellen Sie sicher, dass beim Aufstellen des Produktes das Netzkabel nicht gequetscht oder durch scharfe Kanten beschädigt wird.
                              -  Lassen Sie das Netzkabel nicht mit anderen Kabeln in Kontakt kommen! Seien Sie vorsichtig beim Umgang mit Netzkabeln und -anschlüssen.
                     Fassen Sie diese Teile nie mit nassen Händen an!
                              -  Stecken Sie das Stromkabel nur in geeignete Schukosteckdosen ein. Als Spannungsquelle darf dabei nur eine ordnungsgemäße Netzsteckdose
                    des öffentlichen Versorgungsnetzes verwendet werden.
                              -  Trennen Sie das Gerät bei Nichtbenutzung und vor jeder Reinigung vom Netz! Fassen Sie dazu den Netzstecker an der Grifffläche an und ziehen
                        Sie niemals an der Netzleitung!
                              -  Stellen Sie das Gerät auf einer horizontalen und stabilen, schwer entflammbaren Unterlage auf.
                              -  Vermeiden Sie Erschütterungen und jegliche Gewaltanwendung bei der Installation oder Inbetriebnahme des Gerätes.
                              -  Achten Sie bei der Wahl des Installationsortes darauf, dass das Gerät nicht zu großer Hitze, Feuchtigkeit und Staub ausgesetzt wird. Vergewissern
                        Sie sich, dass keine Kabel frei herumliegen. Sie gefährden Ihre und die Sicherheit Dritter!
                              -  Stellen Sie keine Flüssigkeitsbehälter, die leicht umfallen können, auf dem Gerät oder in dessen Nähe ab. Falls doch einmal Flüssigkeit in das
                      Geräteinnere gelangen sollte, sofort den Netzstecker ziehen. Lassen Sie das Gerät von einem qualifizierten Servicetechniker prüfen, bevor es
                      erneut genutzt wird. Beschädigungen, die durch Flüssigkeiten im Gerät hervorgerufen wurden, sind von der Gewährleistung ausgeschlossen.DEUTSCH
                              -  Betreiben Sie das Gerät nicht in extrem heißen (über 35° C) oder extrem kalten (unter 5° C) Umgebungen. Halten Sie das Gerät von direktem
                      Sonnenlicht und von Wärmequellen wie Heizkörpern, Öfen, usw. (auch beim Transport in geschlossenen Wagen) fern. Verdecken Sie niemals
                    vorhandene Lüfter oder Lüftungsschlitze. Sorgen Sie immer für eine ausreichende Ventilation.
                              -  Das Gerät darf nicht in Betrieb genommen werden, wenn es von einem kalten Raum in einen warmen Raum gebracht wurde. Das dabei
                     entstehende Kondenswasser kann unter Umständen Ihr Gerät zerstören. Lassen Sie das Gerät solange ausgeschaltet, bis es Zimmertemperatur
                        erreicht hat!
                              -  Regler und Schalter sollten niemals mit Sprühreinigungsmitteln und Schmiermitteln behandelt werden. Dieses Gerät sollte nur mit einem
                     feuchten Tuch gereinigt werden. Verwenden Sie niemals Lösungsmittel oder Waschbenzin zum Reinigen.
                              -  Bei Umzügen sollte das Gerät im ursprünglichen Versandkarton transportiert werden.
                              -  Zu Beginn müssen die Überblendregler und Lautstärkeregler Ihres Verstärkers auf Minimum eingestellt und die Lautsprecherschalter in „OFF“-
                       Position geschaltet sein. Vor dem Lauterstellen 8 bis 10 Sekunden warten, um Lautsprecherschäden zu vermeiden.
                              -  Geräte, die an Netzspannung betrieben werden, gehören nicht in Kinderhände. Lassen Sie deshalb in Anwesenheit von Kindern besondere
                       Vorsicht walten.
                              -  In gewerblichen Einrichtungen sind die Unfallverhütungsvorschriften des Verbandes der gewerblichen Berufsgenossenschaft zu beachten.
                              -  In Schulen, Ausbildungseinrichtungen, Hobby- oder Selbsthilfewerkstätten  ist das Betreiben des Gerätes durch geschultes Personal
                      verantwortlich zu überwachen.
                              -  Heben Sie diese Bedienungsanleitung für spätere Fragen und Probleme gut auf.

        BESTIMMUNGSGEMÄSSE VERWENDUNG

                              -  Bei diesem Gerät handelt es sich um eine 2-Kanal-DJ-Controller, mit dem sich Audiosignale regeln und mischen lassen. Das Gerät wird dabei mit
                    einem Computer oder Tablet und einer Audioendstufe bzw. aktiven Lautsprechern verbunden.
                              -  Wird das Gerät anders verwendet, als in dieser Bedienungsanleitung beschrieben, kann dieses zu Schäden am Produkt führen und der
                     Gewährleistungsanspruch erlischt. Außerdem ist jede andere Verwendung mit Gefahren, wie z.B. Kurzschluss, Brand, elektrischem Schlag, etc.
                     verbunden.
                              -  Die vom Hersteller festgelegte Seriennummer darf niemals entfernt werden, da ansonsten der Gewährleistungsanspruch erlischt.

       WARTUNG

                              -  Überprüfen Sie regelmäßig die technische Sicherheit des Gerätes auf Beschädigungen des Netzkabels oder des Gehäuses, sowie auf die
                   Abnutzung von Verschleißteilen, wie Dreh- und Schiebereglern.
                              - Wenn anzunehmen ist, dass ein gefahrloser Betrieb nicht mehr möglich ist , so ist das Gerät außer Betrieb zu setzten und gegen unbeabsichtigten
                       Betrieb zu sichern. Netzstecker aus der Steckdose ziehen!
                              -  Es ist anzunehmen, dass ein gefahrloser Betrieb nicht mehr möglich ist, wenn das Gerät sichtbare Beschädigungen aufweist, das Gerät nicht
                  mehr funktioniert, nach längerer Lagerung unter ungünstigen Verhältnissen oder nach schweren Transportbeanspruchungen.

  8

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
BEDIENOBERFLÄCHE

                                                  1





                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OUT        USB                                                                                               HIGH // VOCALS    7               HIGH // VOCALS
                            2           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MASTER
                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOL
                                                                                  LOW // HARMONIC                         LOW // HARMONIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MASTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MIX                             3     9     3                                                                                                                                                                                       CUE


                                                                                                                                  NEURAL MIX     NEURAL MIX
                                                                                                                FILTER // DRUMS                                   FILTER // DRUMS                                                                                                                                                                              VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUE
         iOS                           4     10     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEADPHONES
               12                                                                       FX PARAM                       12
                                                  11
      13                 14                                                   FX SELECT             14                 13

                                                   PERFORMANCE MODES          5           5                                    PERFORMANCE MODES
 15      16                                          16                       15



                               6

          17   18    19   20                           17    18    19   20

RECHTE SEITENANSICHT
                                                                                                                               DEUTSCH
                                                      21                                                22 23 24   25
LINKE SEITENANSICHT



v



   29    26  27         28

BEZEICHNUNGEN

1.   Docking Station                                                          21. Kopfhörer-Ausgang (3,5 mm Klinke)
2.  Equalizer (2-Band)                                                22. Kopfhörer/Cue-Lautstärke-Regler
3.   Filter                                                             23. Kopfhörer/Cue-Mix-Regler
4.   Effekt-Kippschalter                                                24. Master-Lautstärke-Regler
5.  Linefader                                                         25. Master-Ausgang (Cinch)
6.  Crossfader                                                       26. USB-B-PC/Power-Port
7.  Browse Encoder                                                        27. USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter
8.  Track Load-Tasten                                                28. USB-A-iOS-Port
9.  Kopfhörer-Cue-Tasten                                             29. Kensington Lock
10. FX-Regler
11. FX Parameter-Tasten
12.  Jog Wheel                        LIEFERUMFANG
13. Loop Encoder
                                                                                                            -  Reloop Buddy
14.  Shift-Tasten
                                                                                                            -  Cinch-Kabel
15.  Pitch Fader
                                                                                                            -  USB-Kabel
16. Performance Pads
                                                                                                            -  Bedienungsanleitung
17.  Modus-Tasten
18. Sync-Tasten
19. Cue-Tasten
20. Play/Pause-Tasten

                                                                                                           9

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
         ANSCHLIESSEN DES RELOOP BUDDY

              MASTER-AUSGANG
                  Verbinden Sie Ihre Hauptanlage (z.B. aktive Lautsprecher) mit dem Master-Ausgang (Cinch) -25-.

               KOPFHÖRER-AUSGANG
                  Verbinden Sie Ihren Kopfhörer mit dem Kopfhörer-Ausgang -23-.

               USB-VERBINDUNG
                 Möchten Sie Ihren Reloop Buddy mit einem Computer verwenden, verbinden Sie diesen mit dem USB-B-PC/Power-Port -26- und stellen Sie den
                   USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- auf die Position PC.
              Wenn Sie ein iOS/iPadOS/Android Gerät verwenden möchten, verbinden Sie dieses mit dem USB-A-iOS-Port -28- und wählen sie iOS über den USB-
                   Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- aus.





                                                                                                                                      USB-A




                                      5V/2A


                                    USB-A
                                          Lightning/USB-C                                                Smartphone         SETUP                                                                            Laptop
                                                                                                      Tablet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETUP
                                                                                           PC
                                              USB-B                                                                                  USB-B              /                                                                                                                                                                                   ANDROID                                             Switch to               /                Switch to                                           MAC
                                              iOS Mode                              OS             PC Mode


                                             USB-A                                                                                                      iPAD

                          /
                                                                             iOS




                   djay Pro INSTALLATION & ANSCHLUSS
                   djay Pro iPad/iPhone Installation:
                   Die djay Pro App können Sie wie folgt im App Store erwerben.

                              -  Kaufen und laden Sie die djay Pro App aus dem App Store.
                              -  Platzieren Sie Ihr iPad/iPhone in die Docking Station -1- des Reloop Buddy.
                              -  Stellen Sie den USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- auf iOS.DEUTSCH
                              -  Schließen Sie Ihr iOS-Ladekabel sowohl an den USB-A-iOS-Port -28- des Reloop Buddy, als auch an Ihr iOS-Gerät an.
                              -  Öffnen Sie die zuvor heruntergeladene djay Pro App.

                      Ihr Reloop Buddy wird automatisch erkannt und kann nun bedient werden.

                   djay Android Installation:
                       Falls Sie ein Android Gerät mit dem Reloop Buddy betreiben wollen, überprüfen Sie bitte zunächst, ob dieses Gerät kompatibel ist.
                   Weitere Informationen hierzu entnehmen Sie bitte der App-Beschreibung.

                              -  Kaufen und laden Sie die djay App aus dem Google PlayStore.
                              -  Platzieren Sie Ihr Tablet/Smartphone in die Dockingstation -1- des Reloop Buddy.
                              -  Stellen Sie den USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- auf iOS.
                              -  Schließen Sie Ihr Android Ladekabel sowohl an den USB-A-iOS-Port -28- des Reloop Buddy, als auch an Ihr Android Gerät an.
                              -  Öffnen Sie die zuvor heruntergeladene djay App.

                      Ihr Reloop Buddy wird automatisch erkannt und kann nun bedient werden.

                  Achtung! Computer und iOS/Android Geräte können nicht gleichzeitig verwendet werden. Schließen Sie immer das im Lieferumfang enthaltene
                 USB-Kabel an den USB-B PC/Power Port -26- an und verbinden Sie es mit einem USB-Netzteil. Bitte benutzen Sie ausschließlich das original
                  Netzkabel Ihres Tablets/Smartphones, oder nutzen Sie für eine ausreichende Stromversorgung ein entsprechendes Netzteil (5V, 2.1A). Alternativ
                 können Sie folgendes USB-Netzteil als Ersatzteil erwerben: Art. Nr. 243382.

        BEDIENUNG

                           1. DOCKING STATION
                     In der Docking Station -1- können Sie Ihr iOS/Android Gerät platzieren.

                      2. EQUALIZER
                  Mit dem 2-Band Equalizer -2- können die Höhen und Bässe für Kanal 1 & 2 eingestellt werden.

                      3. FILTER
                  Kanäle 1 & 2 verfügen über einen individuellen Filter -3-.
                     In der 12 Uhr-Stellung ist der Filter ausgeschaltet. Drehen im Uhrzeigersinn erzeugt einen Highpass-Effekt, Drehen gegen den Uhrzeigersinn
                   erzeugt einen Lowpass-Effekt.


  10

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
4. EFFEKT-KIPPSCHALTER
Mit den Effekt-Kippschaltern -4- können Sie den zuvor ausgewählten Effekt aktivieren.
In der Mittelstellung ist der Effekt ausgeschaltet.
Wenn Sie den Effekt-Kippschalter nach vorne einrasten, bleibt dieser dauerhaft eingeschaltet, bis er in die Mittelstellung zurückgesetzt wird.
Wenn Sie den Effekt nur temporär verwenden wollen, können Sie diesen für die gewünschte Effekt-Dauer zurückziehen, sofern Sie den Effekt-
Kippschalter -4- loslassen, setzt dieser sich automatisch in die Mittelstellung zurück.

Hinweis Es stehen Ihnen die in der Software enthaltenen Effekte zur Auswahl, welche in der 1 FX-Bank angesteuert werden können.

5. LINEFADER
Mit den Linefadern -5- wird die Ausgangslautstärke für Kanal 1 & 2 eingestellt.

6. CROSSFADER
Mit dem Crossfader -6- blendet man zwischen dem linken und rechten Kanal über.

7. BROWSE-ENCODER
Verwenden Sie den Browse Encoder -7-, um durch Ihre Bibliotheken zu navigieren.
Durch Drücken des Browse Encoders -7- bestätigen Sie Ihre Auswahl.
SHIFT Wenn Sie einen Menüebene zurück gehen möchten, drücken Sie Shift -14- + Browse Encoder -7-.

8. TRACK LOAD-TASTEN
Drücken Sie die Track Load-Tasten -8- A oder B, um einen Track in das jeweilige Deck zu laden.

9. KOPFHÖRER-CUE-TASTEN
Mit den Kopfhörer-Cue-Tasten -9- können Sie das jeweilige Audiosignal von Kanal 1 & 2 vorhören.

Shift Hinweis
Im Neural Mix™ Modus steuern Sie die Algoriddim Neuralmix™ Funktionen.
Der Neural Mix™-EQ-Modus wird aktiviert, indem Sie Shift -14- + die Kopfhörer Cue-Tasten -9- des gewünschten Kanals drücken.
Hierbei wird der jeweils ausgewählte Track in 3 Spuren aufgeteilt, die über den 2-Band-Equalizer -2- und den Filter -3- einzeln gesteuert werden
können.
-  High = Vocals
-  Low = Harmonic
-  Filter = Drums

10. FX-REGLER
Mit dem FX-Regler -10- regulieren Sie den Effektanteil (Dry/Wet) des ausgewählten Effekts. In der Dry-Position ist der Effekt ausgeschaltet. Je
weiter Sie den FX-Regler -10- im Uhrzeigersinn zur Wet-Position drehen, desto stärker wird der ausgewählte Effekt.

11. FX PARAMETER-TASTEN (FX SELECT)
Mit den FX Parameter-Tasten -11- kontrollieren Sie die Parameter-Funktionen, abhängig vom ausgewählten Modus (z.B. FX-Parameter-Einstellung).
SHIFT Durch Drücken der Shift- -14- + Parameter-Tasten -11- können Sie zwischen den gewünschten Effekten wählen.

12. JOG WHEEL
Das Jog Wheel -12- ist dauerhaft im Vinyl/Scratch-Modus aktiv. Die Oberfläche ist berührungsempfindlich und reagiert auf die Körperspannung.
Durch Drehen des Jog Wheel-Rands kann ein Pitch Bend ausgeführt werden. Shift Durch gleichzeitiges Drücken von Shift -14- + Drehen des Jog
Wheels -12- führen Sie die Quick-Search Funktion (schnelles Spulen) aus.

13. LOOP-ENCODERDurch Drehen des Loop-Encoders -13- stellen Sie die gewünschte Loop-Länge (1/32-32 Takte) ein. Drücken des Loop-Encoders -13- aktiviert die            DEUTSCH
zuvor ausgewählte Loop-Länge. Durch erneutes Drücken deaktivieren Sie den Loop.

14. SHIFT-TASTEN
Gleichzeitiges Drücken von Shift + einer ausgewählten Taste aktiviert die jeweilige Funktion der 2. Ebene, gemäß der Beschriftung des Gerätes.

HINWEIS Die Shift-Tasten -14- sind dem jeweiligen Deck dediziert zugeordnet.

15. PITCH-FADER
Mit den Pitch-Fadern -15- bestimmen Sie das Tempo des Tracks.

16. PERFORMANCE PADS
Die Performance Pads -16- sind farbcodierte Drum Pads, welche den jeweils ausgewählten Performance Modus triggern.
Die verschiedenen Performance-Modi können durch Halten der Mode-Tasten -17- und gleichzeitiges Drücken des gewünschten Performance Pad-
Modus -16- (siehe Beschriftung) aktiviert werden.

FOLGENDE PERFOMANCE-MODI STEHEN ZUR AUSWAHL:
-  Hot Cue-Modus = Triggert die 8 verfügbaren Cue Punkte pro Deck und die Pads leuchten in den entsprechend angezeigten Farben. SHIFT Durch
  Drücken von Shift -14- und des jeweiligen Cue Pads, wird der ausgewählte Cue Punkt gelöscht.
-  Auto Loop-Modus = Jedes der 8 Performance Pads besitzt eine unterschiedliche Loop-Länge. Durch Drücken wird dies der Länge entsprechend
   sofort aktiv, erneutes Drücken deaktiviert den Auto Loop wieder.
-  Touch FX-Modus = Die Drum Pads besitzen verschiedene Instant-Effects, die durch Betätigen des jeweiligen Drum Pads aktiviert werden.
-  Sampler-Modus = Triggert das jeweilige Sample in der Sample-Bank mittels der 16 Drum Pads.
-  Slicer-Modus = Der Slicer teilt den Track in 8 Segmente auf die 8 Pads auf. Nun können Sie einen Track spontan remixen, indem Sie mit den
  verschiedenen Pad-Segmenten spielen.
-  Bounce Loop-Modus = Drücken Sie eines der 8 Pads, um einen Track zu loopen. Die Länge variiert von Pad zu Pad.
-  Neural Mix™-Modus = Im Neural Mix™-Pad-Modus steuern Sie die Algoriddim Neural Mix™ Funktionen über die Drum Pads. Hierbei sind die
  Drum Pads folgendermaßen belegt:
1.  Drum Solo On/Off = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
2.  Harmonic Solo On/Off = Mute Drum & Vocal
3.   Vocal Solo On/Off = Mute Drum &Harmonic
4.  Drum Swap On/Off (deaktiviert die Drum-Spur des ausgewählten Kanals und schaltet die Drum-Spur des anderen Kanals auf Solo)
5.  Drum Solo Hold = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
6.  Harmonic Solo Hold = Mute Drum & Vocal
7.   Vocal Solo Hold = Mute Drum &Harmonic
8.  Drum Swap Hold (deaktiviert die Drum-Spur des ausgewählten Kanals und schaltet die Drum-Spur des anderen Kanals auf Solo)
-  Looper-Mode = Triggert den Looper Sequencer in djay Pro.


                                                                                                                                                  11

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
                        17. MODUS-TASTEN
                 Durch Halten der Modus-Tasten -17- kommen Sie in die Performance Pad-Modus-Auswahl.
                    Hier können Sie über das jeweilige Drum Pad Ihren gewünschten Performance-Modus auswählen (siehe auch 16. Performance Pads).

                      18. SYNC-TASTEN
                   Die Sync -Taste -18- erlaubt es, den BPM-Wert eines Tracks automatisch an das andere Deck anzupassen. Erneutes Drücken der Sync-Taste -18-
                     deaktiviert die Sync-Funktion.

                      19. CUE-TASTEN
                  Mit den Cue-Tasten -19- erstellen und triggern Sie einen temporären Cue Punkt.
                    Dieser wird durch einen weißen Cue Marker dargestellt. Wenn die Cue-Taste -19- während der Wiedergabe gedrückt wird, stoppt die Wiedergabe
                und springt automatisch zum gesetzten Cue Punkt zurück (Cue Play Modus). Wenn Sie die Wiedergabe pausieren und dann die Cue-Taste -19-
                   drücken, wird ein neuer Cue Punkt an dieser Track-Position erstellt (Cue Pause-Modus).

                   20. PLAY/PAUSE-TASTEN
                   Die Play/Pause-Tasten -20- starten/pausieren die Wiedergabe des jeweiligen Decks.

                      21. KOPFHÖRER-AUSGANG
                 Der Kopfhörer-Ausgang -21- dient zum Anschließen Ihres Kopfhörers an den Reloop Buddy.

                   22. KOPFHÖRER-LAUTSTÄRKE-REGLER
                  Mit dem Kopfhörer Lautstärkeregler -22- stellen Sie die Lautstärke Ihres Kopfhörersignals ein.

                   23. KOPFHÖRER MIX-REGLER
                 Der Kopfhörer Mix-Regler -23- mischt das Lautstärkeverhältnis zwischen Kanal- und Master-Signal im Kopfhörer.
                              -  Links = Cue
                              -  Mittelstellung = 50/50 Mischverhältnis
                              -  Rechts = Master

                   24. MASTER LAUTSTÄRKE-REGLER
                  Mit dem Master-Lautstärkeregler -24- stellen Sie die Master-Ausgangslautstärke ein.

                   25. MASTER-AUSGANG (CINCH)
                     Ihre Hauptanlage (z.B. aktive Lautsprecher) wird an den Master-Ausgang (Cinch) -25- angeschlossen und über den Master-Lautstärkeregler -24-
                      geregelt.

                   26. USB-B PC/POWER PORT
                 Der USB-B PC/Power Port -26- dient sowohl zum Anschluss eines Computers, als auch zum Anschluss eines USB-Netzkabels, um Ihr iOS/Android
                   Gerät über den Reloop Buddy aufzuladen.

               HINWEIS Wenn Sie einen Computer nutzen möchten, achten Sie darauf, dass der USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- auf PC gestellt ist.

                     27. USB-QUELLENAUSWAHL-SCHALTER
                  Mit dem USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- wechseln Sie zwischen dem USB-Modus (Computer- oder iOS/Android-Betrieb).

                   28. USB-A IOS PORT
                 Der USB-A iOS Port -28- dient zum Anschluss eines iOS/Android Gerätes.
                   Schließen Sie bitte zusätzlich ein USB-Netzteil an den USB-B PC/Power Port -26- an.

               HINWEIS Wenn Sie ein iOS/Android Gerät nutzen möchten, achten Sie darauf, dass der USB-Quellenauswahl-Schalter -27- auf iOS gestellt ist.DEUTSCH
                   29. KENSINGTON LOCK
                 Das Kensington Lock -29- dient zur Diebstahlsicherung Ihres Reloop BUDDY.

         HINWEIS: djay Pro AUF VERSCHIEDENEN PLATFORMEN

                      Bitte beachten Sie, dass der Feature Umfang unterschiedlich ausfallen kann, abhängig von der verwendeten Plattform. Bitte besuchen Sie die djay
                App Store Seite über den App Store der jeweiligen Plattform, um zu sehen, welche Features unterstützt werden.

        SYSTEMVORAUSSETZUNGEN

                   Die aktuellen Systemvoraussetzungen für iOS/iPadOS, Android, Mac oder Windows können Sie jederzeit auf algoriddim.com einsehen.

                  Mac, iOS, iPadOS, iPhone, iPad and OS X are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
               Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
                       Intel (i3/i5/i7) and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
                  Android is a trademark of Google LLC in the United States and other countries.
                     DJAY®, DJAY PRO®, NEURAL MIX®, and ALGORIDDIM® are registered trademarks of Algoriddim GmbH in the United States and other countries.
              NEURAL MIX  is covered by patents in the United States and other countries, which are assigned to algoriddim GmbH and identified
                     at www.algoriddim.com/patents. Additional patents pending. Issued patents include without limitation:
               US Patent No. 10,887,033 B1, US Patent No. 11,216,244 B2, US Patent No. 11,347,475 B2, JP Patent No. 6926354 B1 18:13

         TECHNISCHE DATEN

                             Soundkarten-Auflösung:.........................................................................24-Bit/48kHz
                                Frequenzgang:...........................................................................................20Hz-20kHz
                 S/N Ratio:....................................................................................................95db (USB)
                                    THD:..............................................................................................................<0.1%
                                Stromversorgung:.....................................................................................DC-5V > 2A USB-B
                                 Master-Ausgang:.......................................................................................Cinch
                                Kopfhörer-Ausgang:.................................................................................3,5 mm
                                 Abmessungen:...........................................................................................325 x 220 x 48 mm (BxHxT)
                                   Gewicht:......................................................................................................1,042 kg



  12

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
DEUTSCH





  13

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
                ATTENTION ! Pour votre propre sécurité, veuillez lire attentivement ce mode d’emploi avant la première utilisation ! Toutes les personnes
                  chargées de l’installation, de la mise en service, de l’utilisation, de l’entretien et la maintenance de cet appareil doivent posséder les qualifications
                    nécessaires et respecter les instructions de ce mode d’emploi. Ce produit est conforme aux directives européennes et nationales, la conformité a
                    été certifiée et les déclarations et documents sont en possession du fabricant.
                Nous vous félicitons d’avoir choisi la Reloop BUDDY, preuve de la confiance que vous accordez à notre technologie pour Disc Jockey. Avant la mise
                 en service, nous vous prions de lire attentivement ce mode d’emploi et de respecter les instructions pendant l’utilisation.

                     Retirez la Reloop BUDDY de son emballage. Avant la première mise en service, vérifiez le bon état de l’appareil. Si le boîtier ou le câble sont
                 endommagés, n’utilisez pas l’appareil et contactez votre revendeur.

         CONSIGNES DE SÉCURITÉ

                ATTENTION ! Soyez particulièrement vigilant lors des branchements avec la tension secteur 100-240 V 50/60 Hz. Une décharge électrique à
                    cette tension peut être mortelle ! La garantie exclu tous les dégâts dus au non-respect des instructions de ce mode d’emploi. Le fabricant
                    décline toute responsabilité pour les dégâts matériels et personnels dus à un usage incorrect ou au non-respect des consignes de sécurité.
               AVERTISSEMENT ! Pour éviter tout risque d’incendie ou de décharge électrique, n’exposez jamais cet appareil à l’humidité, à l’eau ou à d’autres
                     liquides ! N’ouvrez jamais le boîtier !
                              -  Cet appareil a quitté l’usine de fabrication en parfait état. Afin de conserver cet état et assurer la sécurité de fonctionnement, l’utilisateur doit
                    absolument respecter les consignes de sécurité et les avertissements indiqués dans ce mode d’emploi.
                              -  Pour des raisons de sécurité et de certification (CE), il est interdit de transformer ou modifier cet appareil. Tous les dégâts dus à une modification
                    de cet appareil ne sont pas couverts par la garantie.
                              -  Le boîtier ne contient aucune pièce nécessitant un entretien, à l’exception de pièces d’usure pouvant être remplacées de l’extérieur. La
                    maintenance doit exclusivement être effectuée par du personnel qualifié afin de conserver les droits de garantie !
                              -  Les fusibles doivent uniquement être remplacés par des fusibles de même type, dotés de caractéristiques de déclenchement et d’un ampérage
                        identique.
                              -  Veillez à n’effectuer le raccordement secteur qu’une fois l’installation terminée.
                              -  Utilisez uniquement des câbles conformes. Veillez à ce que toutes les fiches et douilles soient bien vissées et correctement connectées. Si vous
                     avez des questions, contactez votre revendeur.
                              -  Veillez à ne pas coincer ou endommager le cordon d’alimentation par des arêtes tranchantes lorsque vous installez l’appareil.
                              -  Prenez garde à ce que le cordon électrique n’entre pas en contact avec d’autres câbles et soyez prudent lorsque vous manipulez des lignes ou
                    des prises électriques. Ne touchez jamais ces éléments avec des mains humides !
                              -  Insérez uniquement le cordon d’alimentation dans des prises électriques de sécurité. La source de tension utilisée doit uniquement être une prise
                        électrique en ordre du réseau d’alimentation publique.
                              -  Débranchez l’appareil lorsque vous ne l’utilisez pas ou pour le nettoyer ! Pour débrancher l’appareil, tirez toujours sur la prise, jamais sur le câble!
                              -  Placez l’appareil sur une surface plane, stable et difficilement inflammable. En cas de larsen, éloignez les enceintes de l’appareil.
                              -  Évitez tous les chocs et l’emploi de la force lors de l’installation et l’utilisation de l’appareil.
                              -  Installez l’appareil dans un endroit à l’abri de la chaleur, de l’humidité et de la poussière. Ne laissez pas traîner les câbles pour votre sécurité
                      personnelle et celle de tiers !
                              - Ne placez jamais des récipients de liquides susceptibles de se renverser sur l’appareil ou à proximité directe. En cas d’infiltration de liquides dans
                           le boîtier, retirez immédiatement la fiche électrique. Faites contrôler l’appareil par un technicien qualifié avant de le réutiliser. La garantie exclu
                      tous les dégâts dus aux infiltrations de liquides.
                              -  N’utilisez pas l’appareil dans un environnement extrêmement chaud (plus de 35°C) ou froid (sous 5° C). N’exposez pas l’appareil directement aux
                     rayons solaires ou à des sources de chaleur telles que radiateurs, fours, etc. (également valable lors du transport). Veillez à ne pas obstruer les
                        ventilateurs ou les fentes de ventilation. Assurez toujours une ventilation convenable.FRANÇAIS                  -  N’utilisez pas l’appareil lorsqu’il est amené d’une pièce froide dans une pièce chaude. L’eau de condensation peut détruire votre appareil. Laissez
                          l’appareil hors tension jusqu’à ce qu’il ait atteint la température ambiante !
                              - Ne nettoyez jamais les touches et curseurs avec des produits aérosols ou gras. Utilisez uniquement un chiffon légèrement humide, jamais de
                       solvants ou d’essence.
                              -  Utilisez l’emballage original pour transporter l’appareil.
                              -  Réglez d’abord les curseurs de réglage et de volume de votre ampli au minimum et les interrupteurs des enceintes sur „OFF“. Attendez 8 à 10
                    secondes avant d’augmenter le volume afin d’éviter d’endommager les enceintes et le diviseur de fréquence.
                              -  Les appareils électriques ne sont pas des jouets. Soyez particulièrement vigilants en présence d’enfants.
                              -  Les directives de prévention des accidents de l’association des fédérations professionnelles doivent être respectées dans les établissements
                    commerciaux.
                              -  Dans les écoles, instituts de formation, ateliers de loisirs etc. l’utilisation de l’appareil doit être effectuée sous la surveillance de personnel
                           qualifié.
                              -  Conservez ce mode d’emploi pour le consulter en cas de questions ou de problèmes.

          UTILISATION CONFORME

                              -  Cet appareil est une console DJ à 2 canaux qui permet de contrôler et de mixer des signaux audio. La console doit être connectée entre la source
                    de signal et l’ampli ou les haut-parleurs actifs.
                              -  Toute utilisation non conforme peut endommager le produit et annuler les droits de garantie. En outre, toute utilisation autre que celle décrite
                    dans ce mode d’emploi peut être source de courts-circuits, incendies, décharge électrique, etc.
                              -  Le numéro de série attribué par le fabricant ne doit jamais être effacé sous peine d’annuler les droits de garantie.

        MAINTENANCE

                              -  Contrôlez régulièrement le bon état de l’appareil (boîtier, cordon) et l’usure éventuelle des molettes et curseurs.
                              -  Si vous supposez que l’appareil ne peut plus être utilisé en toute sécurité, mettez l’appareil hors-service et assurez-le contre toute réutilisation
                         involontaire. Débranchez la fiche électrique de la prise de courant !
                              -  La sécurité d’emploi est susceptible d’être affectée lorsque l’appareil est visiblement endommagé, ne fonctionne plus correctement, après un
                     stockage prolongé dans des conditions défavorable ou après une forte sollicitation de transport.





  14

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
SURFACE

                                                  1





                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OUT        USB                                                                                               HIGH // VOCALS    7               HIGH // VOCALS
                            2           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MASTER
                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOL
                                                                                  LOW // HARMONIC                         LOW // HARMONIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MASTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MIX                             3     9     3                                                                                                                                                                                       CUE


                                                                                                                                  NEURAL MIX     NEURAL MIX
                                                                                                                FILTER // DRUMS                                   FILTER // DRUMS                                                                                                                                                                              VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUE
         iOS                           4     10     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEADPHONES
               12                                                                       FX PARAM                       12
                                                  11
      13                 14                                                   FX SELECT             14                 13

                                                   PERFORMANCE MODES          5           5                                    PERFORMANCE MODES
 15      16                                          16                       15



                               6

          17   18    19   20                           17    18    19   20

PANNEAU DROIT
                                                                                                                                                  FRANÇAIS                                                      21                                                22 23 24   25
PANNEAU GAUCHE





   29    26  27         28

DÉSIGNATIONS

1.   Station d‘accueil                                                         21.  Sortie du casque (jack 3,5 mm)
2.  Égaliseur (2-voies)                                                22. Régulateur de volume du casque
3.   Filtre                                                             23. Régulateur de mixage du casque
4.  Commutateur à bascule d’effet                                      24. Régulateur du volume maître
5.  Linefader                                                         25. Sortie maître (Cinch)
6.  Crossfader                                                       26. Port USB-B PC/Power
7.  Codeur de navigation                                                   27. Commutateur de source USB
8.  Touches Track Load                                               28. Port USB-A “iOS”
9.  Touches Cue du casque                                            29. Verrou Kensington
10. Régulateur FX
11.  Touches des paramètres FX
12.  Roulette de navigation                   CONTENU DE LA LIVRAISON
13. Codeur Loop
                                                                                                            -  Reloop Buddy
14. Touches SHIFT
                                                                                                            -  Câble Cinch
15.  Pitch-Fader
                                                                                                            -  Câble USB
16. Performance Pads
                                                                                                            - mode d‘emploi
17.  Touche Mode
18. Touches Sync
19. Touches CUE
20. Touches Play/Pause

                                                                                                                             15

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
        RACCORDEMENT DU RELOOP BUDDY

                SORTIE MAÎTRE
                  Connectez votre installation principale (p. ex. enceinte active) à la sortie maître - 25.

                SORTIE DU CASQUE
                  Connectez votre casque à la sortie du casque -23.

               CONNEXION USB
                       Si vous désirez utiliser votre Reloop BUDDY avec un ordinateur, connectez ce dernier au port USB-B PC/Power -26- et mettez le commutateur de
                   source USB -27- sur PC.Si vous désirez utiliser un appareil “iOS”/”iPadOS”/Android, connectez-le au port USB-A “iOS” -28- et sélectionnez “iOS” au
                moyen du commutateur de source USB -27.





                                                                                                                                      USB-A




                                      5V/2A


                                    USB-A
                                          Lightning/USB-C                                                Smartphone         SETUP                                                                            Laptop
                                                                                                      Tablet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETUP
                                                                                           PC
                                              USB-B                                                                                  USB-B              /                                                                                                                                                                                   ANDROID                                             Switch to               /                Switch to                                           MAC
                                              iOS Mode                              OS             PC Mode


                                             USB-A                                                                                                      iPAD

                          /
                                                                             iOS




                      Installation de djay Pro et connexion
                      Installation de djay Pro iPad/iPhone :
                 Vous pouvez acheter l’appli djay de la manière suivante dans l’App Store.

                              -  Achetez et téléchargez l’appli djay Pro dans l’App Store.
                              -  Placez votre iPad/iPhone dans la station d‘accueil -1- du Reloop BUDDY.
                              -  Mettez le commutateur de source USB -27- sur „iOS“.
                              -  Raccordez votre câble de chargement „iOS“ au port USB-A „iOS“ -28- du Reloop BUDDY et à votre appareil „iOS“.
                              -  Ouvrez l‘appli djay Pro que vous avez téléchargée.FRANÇAIS
                   Votre Reloop BUDDY est automatiquement détecté et peut à présent être utilisé.

                      Installation djay Android :
                       Si vous désirez utiliser un appareil Android avec le Reloop BUDDY, veuillez d’abord vérifier si cet appareil est compatible.
                   Consultez la description de l’appli pour plus d’informations à ce sujet.

                              -  Achetez et téléchargez l’appli djay dans le Google PlayStore.
                              -  Placez votre tablette/smartphone dans la station d‘accueil -1- du Reloop BUDDY.
                              -  Mettez le commutateur de source USB -27- sur „iOS“.
                              -  Raccordez votre câble de chargement Android au port USB-A „iOS“ -28- du Reloop BUDDY et à votre appareil Android.
                              -  Ouvrez l‘appli djay que vous avez téléchargée.


                   Votre Reloop BUDDY est automatiquement détecté et peut à présent être utilisé.

                    Attention ! L’ordinateur et les appareils “iOS”/Android ne peuvent pas être utilisés simultanément. Raccordez toujours le câble USB fourni
                 au port USB-B PC/Power -26- et connectez-le à un bloc d’alimentation USB. Veuillez n’utiliser que le câble secteur original de votre tablette/
                 smartphone ou utilisez un bloc d’alimentation (5 V, 2,1 A) fournissant une alimentation électrique suffisante. Vous pouvez également acheter le
                    bloc d’alimentation USB suivant comme pièce de rechange : réf. 243382.

       COMMANDE

                           1. STATION D‘ACCUEIL
                   Placez votre appareil „iOS“/Android dans la station d‘accueil -1.

                      2. ÉGALISEUR
                      L’égaliseur 2 voies -2- permet de régler les aigus et les graves pour les canaux 1 & 2.

                      3. FILTRE
                   Les canaux 1 & 2 disposent d’un filtre individuel -3.
                  Le filtre est hors service en position 12 heures. Une rotation dans le sens horaire génère un effet Highpass, une rotation dans le sens anti-horaire
                  génère un effet Lowpass.



  16

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
4. COMMUTATEUR À BASCULE D’EFFET
Le commutateur à bascule d’effet -4- permet d’activer un effet précédemment sélectionné. L’effet est désactivé en position médiane.
Si vous enclenchez l’effet vers l’avant, il reste activé jusqu’à ce qu’il revienne en position médiane.
Si vous ne voulez utiliser l’effet que temporairement, vous pouvez le tirer en arrière pour la durée de l’effet que vous voulez obtenir, et lorsque vous
relâchez le commutateur à bascule d’effet -4-, il reviendra automatiquement en position médiane.

Indication Les effets contenus dans le logiciel sont disponibles. Vous pouvez les commander dans la banque 1 FX.

5. LINEFADER
Le Linefader -5- permet de régler le volume de sortir des canaux 1 & 2.

6. CROSSFADER
Le Crossfader -6- permet d’effectuer un fondu enchaîné entre les canaux gauche et droit.

7. CODEUR DE NAVIGATION
Utilisez le codeur de navigation -7- pour naviguer dans votre bibliothèque. Validez votre choix en appuyant sur le codeur de navigation -7.
SHIFT Si vous souhaitez revenir en arrière d’un niveau de menu, appuyez sur SHIFT -14- + codeur de navigation -7.

8. TOUCHES TRACK LOAD
Appuyez sur les touches Track Load -8- A ou B, um pour charger la piste sur la platine de votre choix.

9. TOUCHES CUE DU CASQUE
Avec les touches Cue du casque -9- vous pouvez pré-écouter le signal audio respectif du canal 1 & 2.

SHIFT REMARQUE
En mode Neural Mix™, vous commandez les fonctions Neural Mix™ d’Algoriddim.
Le mode Neural Mix™-EQ est activé en appuyant sur la touche SHIFT -14- + les touches Cue du casque -9- du canal de votre choix.
La piste sélectionnée respectivement est ici répartie sur 3 voies, qui peuvent être commandées individuellement par l’égaliseur 2 voies -2- et le
filtre -3.
-  High = Vocals
-  Low = Harmonic
-  Filter = Drums

10. RÉGULATEUR FX
Le régulateur FX -10- permet de régler la part d’effet (DRY/WET) de l’effet sélectionné. En position Dry, l’effet est désactivé, plus vous tournez le
régulateur FX -10- dans le sens horaire vers la position Wet, plus l‘effet sélectionné est intense.

11. TOUCHES DES PARAMÈTRES FX (FX SELECT)
Les touches des paramètres FX -11- vous permettent de contrôler les fonctions des paramètres, indépendamment du mode sélectionné (p. ex.,
réglage des paramètres FX)
SHIFT Appuyez sur les touches SHIFT -14- + et des paramètres -11- pour choisir l’effet de votre choix.

12. ROULETTE DE NAVIGATION
La roulette de navigation -12- est active en permanence en mode Vinyl/Scratch. La surface est sensible au contact et réagit à la tension corporelle.
Touchez le bord de la roulette de navigation pour effectuer un Pitch Bend.
SHIFT En tournant simultanément SHIFT -14- + en tournant la roulette de navigation -12-, vous exécutez la fonction Quick-Search (enroulement rapide).

13. CODEUR LOOP
Tournez le codeur Loop -13- pour régler la longueur de Loop de votre choix
(1/32-32 mesures). Appuyez sur le codeur LOOP -13- pour activer la longueur de Loop préréglée, puis appuyez à nouveau pour désactiver le Loop.                                                                                                                                                  FRANÇAIS
14. TOUCHES SHIFT
Les touches SHIFT activent les fonctions respectives du 2e niveau, selon les inscriptions de l’appareil.

INDICATION Les touches -14- sont dédiées à la platine respective.

15. PITCH-FADER
Le Pitch-Fader -15- permet de définir le tempo de la piste.


16. PERFORMANCE PADS
Les Performance Pads -16- sont des Drum Pads à code couleur qui déclenchent le mode Performance respectivement sélectionné,
Les différents modes Performance peuvent être activés en maintenant les touches Mode -17- et en appuyant simultanément sur le mode
Performance Pad de votre choix -16- (voir inscription)
-  Les modes Performance suivants sont disponibles:
- Mode Hot Cue = déclenche les 8 points de repère disponibles pour chaque platine et les Pads s’allument dans les couleurs respectivement
   affichées. SHIFTAppuyez sur SHIFT -14- et le Cue Pad respectif pour supprimer le point de repère sélectionné,
- Mode Auto Loop = chacun des 8 Performance Pads possède une longueur de Loop différente. En appuyant, celle de la longueur respective est
  immédiatement active, et en appuyant à nouveau, l’Auto Loop est à nouveau désactivé.
- Mode Touch FX = les Drum Pads possèdent différents Instant-Effects qui sont activés en appuyant sur le Drum Pad respectif.
- Mode Sampler = déclenche le Sample respectif dans la banque de Samples au moyen des 16 Drum Pads.
- Mode Slicer = le Slicer divise la piste en 8 segments sur les 8 Pads. Vous pouvez à présent remixer spontanément une piste en jouant avec les
   différents segments de Pad.
- Mode Bounce Loop = appuyez sur l’un des 8 Pads pour looper une piste. La longueur varie de Pad à Pad.
- Mode Neural Mix™ = en mode Neural Mix™-Pad, vous commandez les fonctions Neural Mix™ d’Algoriddim via les Drum Pads. Les Drum Pads
  sont attribués comme suit :
1.  Drum Solo On/Off = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
2.  Harmonic Solo On/Off = Mute Drum & Vocal
3.  Vocal Solo On/Off = Mute Drum &Harmonic
4.  Drum Swap On/Off (désactive la piste de Drum du canal sélectionné et passe la piste de Drum de l‘autre canal sur Solo)
5.  Drum Solo Hold = Mute Harmonic & Vocal
6.  Harmonic Solo Hold = Mute Drum & Vocal
7.   Vocal Solo Hold = Mute Drum &Harmonic
8.  Drum Swap Hold (désactive la piste de Drum du canal sélectionné et passe la piste de Drum de l‘autre canal sur Solo)
- Mode Looper = déclenche le “Looper Sequencer” dans djay.


                                                                                                                                 17

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
                        17. TOUCHE MODE
                  Maintenez enfoncée la touche Mode -17- pour parvenir à la sélection du mode Performance Pad. Vous pouvez y sélectionner le mode Performance
                 de votre choix via le Drum Pad respectif (voir également 16. Performance-Pads).

                      18. TOUCHES SYNC
                  La touche Sync -18- permet d’ajuster automatiquement la valeur BPM d’une piste à l’autre platine. Appuyez à nouveau sur la touche Sync -18- pour
                    désactiver la Sync.

                      19. TOUCHES CUE
                   Les touches CUE -19- vous permettent de créer et de déclencher un point de repère temporaire.
               Un marqueur Cue blanc le représente. Si vous appuyez sur la touche CUE -19- pendant la lecture, la lecture est arrêtée et revient automatiquement
                 au point de repère défini (mode CUE Play). Si vous mettez la lecture en pause et appuyez ensuite sur la touche CUE -19-, un nouveau point de repère
                     est créé sur cette position de la piste (mode CUE Pause).

                   20. TOUCHES PLAY/PAUSE
                   Les touches Play/Pause -20- démarrent/mettent en pause la lecture de la platine respective.

                      21. SORTIE DU CASQUE
                  La sortie du casque -21- sert à connecter votre casque.

                   22. RÉGULATEUR DE VOLUME DU CASQUE
                  Le régulateur de volume du casque -22- permet de régler la volume du signal de votre casque.

                   23. RÉGULATEUR DE MIXAGE DU CASQUE
                  Le régulateur de mixage du casque -23- mixe la balance du volume entre le canal et le signal maître dans le casque.
                              -  Gauche = Cue
                              -  Position médiane = rapport 50/50
                              -  Droite = maître

                   24. RÉGULATEUR DU VOLUME MAÎTRE
                  Le régulateur de volume maître -24- vous permet de régler le volume de sortie maître.

                   25. SORTIE MAÎTRE (CINCH)
                   Votre installation principale (p. ex. enceinte active) est connecté à la sortie maître (Cinch) -25- et réglée par le régulateur du volume maître -24.

                   26. PORT USB-B PC/POWER
                  Le port USB-B PC/Power -26- sert autant à connecter un ordinateur qu’à connecter un câble USB afin de charger votre appareil “iOS”/Android via
                        le Reloop BUDDY.

                 INDICATION Si vous voulez utiliser un ordinateur, assurez-vous que le commutateur de source USB -27- soit réglé sur PC.

                     27. COMMUTATEUR DE SOURCE USB
                  Le commutateur de source USB -27- vous permet de passer d’un mode USB à l’autre (mode ordinateur ou “iOS”/Android).

                   28. PORT USB-A “IOS”
                  Le port USB-A “iOS” -28- sert à connecter un appareil “iOS”/Android. Veuillez également connecter un bloc d’alimentation au port USB-B PC/Power
                      -26.

                 INDICATION Si vous voulez utiliser un appareil “iOS”/Android, assurez-vous que le commutateur de source USB -27- soit réglé sur “iOS”.

                   29. VERROU KENSINGTONFRANÇAIS
                  Le verrou Kensington -29- est un dispositif antivol pour votre Reloop BUDDY.

        REMARQUE : djay Pro ON DIFFERENTES PLATEFORMES

                     Veuillez noter que la fonctionnalité de l‘application peut varier en fonction de la plateforme utilisée. Veuillez visiter la page Web officiel de
                       l‘application djay Pro pour vérifier quelles fonctionnalités sont supportées.

         CONFIGURATION REQUISE

                 Vous pouvez consulter à tout moment la configuration requise pour “iOS”/”iPadOS”, Android, Mac ou Windows sur algoriddim.com .

                  Mac, iOS, iPadOS, iPhone, iPad and OS X are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
               Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
                       Intel (i3/i5/i7) and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
                  Android is a trademark of Google LLC in the United States and other countries.
                     DJAY®, DJAY PRO®, NEURAL MIX®, and ALGORIDDIM® are registered trademarks of Algoriddim GmbH in the United States and other countries.
              NEURAL MIX  is covered by patents in the United States and other countries, which are assigned to algoriddim GmbH and identified
                     at www.algoriddim.com/patents. Additional patents pending. Issued patents include without limitation:
               US Patent No. 10,887,033 B1, US Patent No. 11,216,244 B2, US Patent No. 11,347,475 B2, JP Patent No. 6926354 B1 18:13

        DONNÉES TECHNIQUES

                 Sound Card Resolution:...........................................................................24bit/48kHz
                  Frequency Response:...............................................................................20Hz-20kHz
                 S/N Ratio:....................................................................................................95db (USB)
                                    THD:..............................................................................................................<0.1%
                                   Power:..........................................................................................................DC-5V > 2A USB-B
                  Master Out:.................................................................................................RCA
                 Headphone Out:.........................................................................................3.5mm
                                 Dimensions:................................................................................................325mm (W) x 220mm (D) x 48mm (H)
                                   Weight:........................................................................................................1,042 kg



  18

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
FRANÇAIS





  19

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
                 ¡ATENCIÓN! En aras de su propia seguridad, ¡lea detenidamente este manual de instrucciones antes de la primera puesta en marcha! Todas
                      las personas relacionadas con el montaje, la puesta en marcha, la operación, el mantenimiento y la reparación de este equipo deben estar
                  correctamente cualificadas y haber leído con atención este manual de instrucciones. Este producto cumple con los requisitos de las directivas
                  europeas y nacionales, se ha comprobado la conformidad y las declaraciones y los documentos correspondientes están en posesión del fabricante.
                 Queremos felicitarle por la compra de la Reloop READY. Muchas gracias por confiar en nuestra tecnología para DJs. Antes de la puesta en marcha,
                      lea detenidamente las instrucciones y asegúrese de cumplirlas.

                    Extraiga la Reloop READY de la caja. Antes de la primera puesta en marcha, compruebe si el equipo presenta daños visibles producidos por el
                     transporte. Si descubre daños en el cable de alimentación o en la carcasa, no ponga en marcha el equipo y contacte con su distribuidor especializado.

         INDICACIONES DE SEGURIDAD

                 ¡ATENCIÓN! Tenga especial cuidado al trabajar con tensiones de red de AC 100 - 240 V, 50/60Hz. Con estas tensiones, ¡podría sufrir una descarga
                      eléctrica mortal! Los daños ocasionados por el incumplimiento de este manual de instrucciones anulan el derecho a la garantía. El fabricante no se
                  hace responsable de los daños materiales o personales provocados por el manejo incorrecto del equipo o por el incumplimiento de las indicaciones
                 de seguridad.

                   ¡AVISO! ¡Para evitar incendios o descargas eléctricas, no exponga el dispositivo al agua o a ningún tipo de líquidos! ¡Nunca abra la carcasa!
                              -  Este equipo ha salido de fábrica en perfectas condiciones de funcionamiento. Para conservar el equipo en perfecto estado y garantizar un
                     funcionamiento seguro, el usuario debe respetar las indicaciones de seguridad y de advertencia contenidas en este manual.
                              -  Por razones de seguridad y de licencia (CE) no está permitida la reconstrucción y/o modificación del equipo. La garantía no cubre los daños
                     provocados por las modificaciones manuales realizadas en el equipo.
                              -  En el interior del equipo no hay ninguna pieza que necesite mantenimiento, a excepción de aquellas piezas que por desgaste deban cambiarse.
                        El mantenimiento debe ser realizado por personal cualificado; de lo contrario, ¡la garantía queda anulada!
                              -  Los dispositivos de seguridad solo deben reemplazarse por otros dispositivos del mismo tipo, con las mismas características de activación y la
                  misma corriente nominal.
                              -  Asegúrese de conectar la alimentación después de montar el equipo.
                              -  Utilice siempre y únicamente cables que cumplan con las normativas. Asegúrese de que todos los enchufes y casquillos estén bien fijados y
                     correctamente conectados. En caso de dudas, consulte con su distribuidor.
                              -  Asegúrese de que durante el montaje del producto, el cable de alimentación no se dobla ni sufre daños causados por cantos afilados.
                              -  ¡No permita que el cable de red entre en contacto con otros cables! Tenga extremo cuidado al manejar el cable de red y otras conexiones. ¡Nunca
                     toque estas piezas con las manos mojadas!
                              -  Inserte el cable de alimentación solo en enchufes de tipo “Schuko”. Como fuente de tensión solo debe emplearse una toma de corriente adecuada
                    de la red eléctrica pública.
                              -  Desconecte el equipo de la red cuando no lo utilice y antes de los trabajos de limpieza. Nunca toque la superficie de contacto del enchufe y nunca
                            tire de la línea de red.
                              -  Coloque el equipo sobre una superficie horizontal, estable y difícilmente inflamable.
                              -  Evite las vibraciones y cualquier uso violento durante la instalación o la puesta en marcha del equipo.
                              -  Al elegir el lugar de instalación, asegúrese de que el equipo no está expuesto a altas temperaturas, a humedad y/o a polvo. Asegúrese de que no
                    haya cables tirados por el suelo. ¡Estos cables ponen en peligro su seguridad y la de de terceros!
                              - No coloque en el equipo o en sus inmediaciones recipientes que contengan líquido y puedan volcar con facilidad. En caso de que penetre líquido
                   en el interior del equipo, retire de inmediato el enchufe de la red. Haga que un técnico de servicio cualificado compruebe el equipo antes de
                       volverlo a utilizar. Los daños causados por el derrame de líquidos quedan excluidos de la garantía.
                              - No utilice el equipo en ambientes con una temperatura muy alta (superior a 35°) o muy baja (inferior a 5°). Proteja el equipo de la luz solar directaFRANÇAIS            y de fuentes de calor como radiadores, hornos, etc. (también durante el transporte en vehículos cerrados). Nunca cubra los ventiladores ni los
                           orificios de ventilación previstos. Asegúrese de que siempre haya suficiente ventilación.
                              -  El equipo no debe ponerse en funcionamiento si se traslada de un lugar frío a otro con altas temperatura. El agua condensada que se forme
                   puede destruir el equipo en ciertas circunstancias. ¡Deje el equipo desconectado hasta que alcance la temperatura ambiente!
                              -  Los reguladores e interruptores nunca deben limpiarse con lubricantes o pulverizando soluciones limpiadoras. Este equipo sólo debe limpiarse
                    con un paño húmedo. No utilice nunca disolventes o bencina de lavado.
                              -  En caso de trasladar el equipo, debe transportarse en el embalaje original.
                              -  Al principio, los controles de crossfade y volumen de su amplificador deben estar ajustados al mínimo y los interruptores de los altavoces deben
                       estar en la posición „OFF“. Espere de 8 a 10 segundos antes de subir el volumen para evitar daños en los altavoces y el cruce.
                              -  Los equipos que funcionan con tensión de red no deben estar al alcance de los niños. Por este motivo tenga especial cuidado cuando haya niños cerca.
                              -  En establecimientos industriales debe prestarse atención a las disposiciones de prevención de accidentes de la asociación profesional industrial.
                              -  En escuelas, instituciones de aprendizaje y talleres de tiempo libre o bricolaje, el funcionamiento del equipo debe estar supervisado por personal
                       capacitado.
                              -  Guarde bien este manual de instrucciones para cuestiones y problemas que puedan surgir posteriormente.

        USO CONFORME AL DESTINO PREVISTO

                              -  Este dispositivo es una consola de DJ de 2 canales que le permite controlar y mezclar las señales de audio. El equipo se conecta entre la fuente
                    de señal y un transformador de sonido de audio o altavoces activos.
                              -  Si se utiliza el equipo de una manera distinta a la descrita en este manual de instrucciones, podrían producirse daños que anularán la garantía.
                   Además, cualquier otro uso podría resultar peligroso y provocar cortocircuitos, incendios, descargas eléctricas, etc.
                              -  Nunca se debe retirar el número de serie del fabricante; de lo contrario, la garantía queda anulada.

        MANTENIMIENTO

                              -  Compruebe regularmente la seguridad técnica del equipo en cuanto a daños del cable de red o de la carcasa, así como el deterioro de las piezas
                    de desgaste y de los reguladores giratorios y deslizantes.
                              -  Si se sospecha que no es posible un funcionamiento seguro, desconecte el equipo y asegúrelo contra una conexión involuntaria. ¡Retire el
                     enchufe de la caja de enchufe!
                              -  Es posible que el equipo ya no funcione de manera segura si presenta daños visibles o que ya ni siquiera funcione después haberlo guardado
                     durante un largo período de tiempo en condiciones desfavorables o después de haberlo transportado de manera inadecuada.




  20

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
CONTROLES

                                                  1





                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OUT        USB                                                                                               HIGH // VOCALS    7               HIGH // VOCALS
                            2           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MASTER
                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VOL
                                                                                  LOW // HARMONIC                         LOW // HARMONIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MASTER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MIX                             3     9     3                                                                                                                                                                                       CUE


                                                                                                                                  NEURAL MIX     NEURAL MIX
                                                                                                                FILTER // DRUMS                                   FILTER // DRUMS                                                                                                                                                                              VOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUE
         iOS                           4     10     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HEADPHONES
               12                                                                       FX PARAM                       12
                                                  11
      13                 14                                                   FX SELECT             14                 13

                                                   PERFORMANCE MODES          5           5                                    PERFORMANCE MODES
 15      16                                          16                       15



                               6

          17   18    19   20                           17    18    19   20

PARTE DERECHO
                                                                                                                               ESPAÑOL
                                                      21                                                22 23 24   25
PARTE IZQUIERDA





   29    26  27         28

DESIGNACIONES

1.   Bahía de acoplamiento                                                   21.  Salida de auriculares (conector de 3,5 mm)
2.  Ecualizador (2-bandas)                                            22. Volumen de señal de auriculares
3.   Filtro                                                             23. Control de la mezcla de auriculares
4.  FX-Paddle                                                         24. Volumen general
5.  Line fader                                                        25. Master Out (RCA)
6.  Crossfader                                                       26. Puerto de alimentación / PC USB-B
7.  Mando de exploración de listas y canciones                            27.  Interruptor de fuente USB
8.  Botones de carga de pistas                                        28. Puerto USB-A para „iOS“
9.  Botones de control de CUE por auriculares                          29. Ranura antirobo Kensington
10. Control de nivel de efectos
11.  Botones de control de parámetros de efectos
12.  Jog Wheel                         CONTENIDO DEL PAQUETE
13. Mando de control de bucles
                                                                                                            -  Reloop Buddy
14. SHIFT (acceso a funciones alternativas)
                                                                                                            -  Cable RCA
15.  Pitch Fader
                                                                                                            -  Cable USB
16. Performance Pads
                                                                                                            -  manual de instrucciones
17.  Selección de MODO
18. SYNC
19. SEÑAL
20. REPRODUCCIÓN / PAUSA

                                                                                                                            21

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
         CONEXIÓN DEL RELOOP BUDDY

                SALIDA MASTER
                  Conecte su sistema principal de sonid (por ejemplo, altavoces activos o equipo Hi-FI) a la salida Master Out -25-.

               AURICULARES / CUE OUT
                  Conecte sus auriculares a la salida de auriculares -23-.

               CONEXIÓN USB
                       Si desea utilizar su Reloop BUDDY con un ordenador, conéctelo al puerto USB-B PC / Power -26- y configure el USB Source Switch -27- en PC.
                       Si desea utilizar un dispositivo „iOS“ / „iPadOS“ // Android, conecte su Reloop BUDDY al
                   Puerto USB-A “iOS” -28- y seleccione “iOS” mediante el conmutador USB Source -27-.





                                                                                                                                      USB-A




                                      5V/2A


                                    USB-A
                                          Lightning/USB-C                                                Smartphone         SETUP                                                                            Laptop
                                                                                                      Tablet                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SETUP
                                                                                           PC
                                              USB-B                                                                                  USB-B              /                                                                                                                                                                                   ANDROID                                             Switch to               /                Switch to                                           MAC
                                              iOS Mode                              OS             PC Mode


                                             USB-A                                                                                                      iPAD

                          /
                                                                             iOS





                INSTALACIÓN Y CONEXIÓN DE djay Pro

                     Instalación de djay iPad / iPhone:
                 Puedes comprar la aplicación djay Pro en la App Store.

                              -  Compre y descargue la aplicación djay Pro de la App Store.
                              -  Coloque su iPad / iPhone en la bahía de acoplamiento -1- del Reloop BUDDY.
                              -  Coloque el interruptor de fuente USB -27- en “iOS”.ESPAÑOL                              -  Conecte su cable de alimentación „iOS“ al puerto USB-A „iOS“ de Reloop BUDDY -28-, así como a su dispositivo „iOS“.
                              -  Abra la aplicación djay Pro descargada anteriormente.

                 Su Reloop BUDDY será reconocido por el software de automática y ya se puede utilizar normalmente.

                     Instalación de djay Android:
                       Si desea operar un dispositivo Android con Reloop BUDDY, primero verifique si su dispositivo es compatible. Consulte la descripción de la aplicación
                   para obtener más información.

                              -  Compre y descargue su aplicación djay desde Google PlayStore.
                              -  Coloque su tableta en la bahía de acoplamiento -1- del Reloop BUDDY.
                              -  Establezca el conmutador de USB Source -27- en “iOS”.
                              -  Conecte su cable de alimentación de Android al puerto USB-A “iOS” de Reloop BUDDY -28- así como a su dispositivo Android.
                              -  Abra la aplicación djay descargada anteriormente

                 Su Reloop BUDDY será reconocido por el software de automática y ya se puede utilizar normalmente.

                    ¡Atención! El ordenador y los dispositivos “iOS” / Android no se pueden usar simultáneamente.
                  Conecte siempre el cable USB suministrado al puerto USB-B PC / Power -26- y conéctelo a una fuente de alimentación USB. Utilice únicamente el
                   cable de alimentación original de su tableta / teléfono inteligente o utilice una fuente de alimentación adecuada (5 V, 2,1 A) para garantizar una
                   fuente de alimentación suficiente. Alternativamente, puede adquirir la siguiente fuente de alimentación USB como repuesto: Art. 243382.

         OPERACIÓN

                           1. BAHÍA DE ACOPLAMIENTO
                 Puede colocar su dispositivo „iOS“ / Android en la Bahía de acoplamiento -1-.

                      2. ECUALIZADOR
                Con el ecualizador de 2 bandas -2- puede ajustar los agudos y graves para el sonido de los canales 1 y 2.

                      3. FILTRAR
                  Los canales 1 y 2 tienen un filtro individual -3-.
                En su posición de las 12 en punto, el filtro estará apagado (sin efecto). Al girar el filtro -3- en el sentido de las agujas del reloj se crea un efecto de
                          filtro paso alto eliminando los graves, al girarlo en sentido contrario se crea un efecto de paso bajo eliminando los agudos.



  22

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
4. FX PADDLE
Utilice las paletas FX -4- para activar el efecto previamente seleccionado.
En la posición central, el efecto está desactivado. Si bloquea el efecto hacia adelante, permanecerá encendido permanentemente hasta que se
restablezca a la posición central nuevamente. Si solo desea utilizar el efecto temporalmente, puede retraerlo durante la duración deseada del efecto
y si suelta el FX Paddle -4-, volverá automáticamente a la posición central.

NOTA Puede elegir entre los efectos incluidos en el software, que se pueden controlar a través del banco 1 FX.

5. LINEFADER
Con Linefader -5- puede ajustar el volumen de salida para los canales 1 y 2

6. CROSSFADER
El crossfader -6- cambia de forma lineal entre el sonido del canal izquierdo y el derecho.

7. EXAMINAR CODIFICADOR
Utilice el mando de exploración -7- para navegar por sus bibliotecas de música.
Presione el mando de exploración -7- para confirmar su selección.
SHIFT Para retroceder un elemento del menú, presione SHIFT -14- + Browse Encoder -7-.

8. CARGA DE PISTAS
Presione el botón Track Load -8- A o B para cargar una pista en el reproductor deseado.

9. BOTONES DE NIVEL DE SEÑAL DE AURICULARES
Con los botones Headphone / Cue -9- puede escuchar previamente la señal de audio respectiva de los canales 1 y 2.

SHIFT NOTA DE CAMBIO
En el modo Neural Mix™ usted controla las funciones de Algoriddim Neural Mix™.
El modo Neural Mix™ EQ se activa presionando SHIFT -14- + el botón Headphone Cue -9- del canal deseado.
Esto dividirá la pista seleccionada en 3 ondas, que se pueden controlar individualmente mediante el ecualizador de 2 bandas -2- y el filtro -3-.
-  ALTO = VOCALES
-  BAJO = ARMÓNICO
-  FILTRO = BOMBOS Y TAMBORES

10. CONTROL DE NIVEL DE EFECTOS
Con el control FX -10- puede ajustar la intensidad de los efectos (DRY / WET) del efecto seleccionado.
En la posición DRY, el efecto se apaga o deja se ser audible, al girar el FX Control -10- en el sentido de las agujas del reloj hacia la posición WET se
intensifica el efecto.

11. BOTONES DE CONTROL DE PARÁMETROS DE LOS EFECTOS (SELECCIÓN DE EFECTOS)
Con los botones de parámetros de efecto -11- controlas las funciones de los parámetros, dependiendo del efecto activo.
SHIFT Al presionar SHIFT -14- + botones de parámetros FX -11- podremos elegir entre los efectos deseados de entre una lista de disponibles.

12. JOG WHEEL
El Jog Wheel -12- está permanentemente activo en modo vinilo / scratch. La superficie es sensible al tacto y reacciona a la fuerza que hagamos.
Girando el Jog Wheel -12- se puede utilizar para realizar un pitch bend.
SHIFT Pulsando SHIFT -14- + girando la rueda de selección -12- al mismo tiempo, puede realizar la función de búsqueda rápida (desplazamiento
rápido por la canción hasta cualquier punto de la misma).

13. MANDO DE CONTROL DE BUCLESGirando el Loop Encoder -13- puede seleccionar la longitud del loop (1 / 32-32 compases).                                                         ESPAÑOL
Al presionar el Loop Encoder -13- se active el loop con la duración previamente seleccionada, al presionarlo nuevamente se desactiva el loop.

14. SHIFT
Al presionar SHIFT + un botón con doble función se activan las funciones respectivas del 2 ° nivel de funcionalidad, según se muestra etiquetado
en el dispositivo.

NOTA Los botones SHIFT -14- están dedicados al deck respectivo.

15. PITCH FADER
Los Pitch Faders -15- determinan el tempo de la pista.

16. PERFORMANCE PADS
Los Performance Pads -16- son pads para tocar al estilo de una batería y codificados por colores que nos indicarán el modo de interpretación que
tengamos seleccionado. Los diferentes modos de interpretación se pueden activar manteniendo presionado el botón MODE -17- y presionando el
modo Performance Pad seleccionado posteriormente -16-.

ESTÁN DISPONIBLES LOS SIGUIENTES MODOS DE INTERPRETACIÓN:
-  Hot Cue Mode = Activa los 8 puntos de cue disponibles por reproductor y los colores del pad se iluminan en los colores correspondientes. SHIFT
  Presionando SHIFT -14- y el Cue Pad respectivo y previamente almacenado, se borrará
-  Auto Loop Mode = Cada uno de los 8 Performance Pads tiene entonces una duración de loop diferente. Al presionarlo, se activará inmediatamente
  según la longitud, al presionarlo nuevamente se desactivará el Auto Loop.
- Modo Touch FX = En este modo los pads percusivos tienen diferentes sonidos de efectos instantáneos que se asignarán a cada pad.
- Modo Sampler = Dispara la muestra respectiva del banco de muestras utilizando los 16 pads percusivos.
- Modo Bounce Loop = Presione uno de los 8 pads para hacer un bucle en una pista, la duración varía de un pad a otro.
- Modo Neural Mix™ = En el modo Neural Mix™ Pad usted controla las funciones de Algoriddim Neural Mix™ a través de los pads de batería. Los
  pads de batería se asignan de la siguiente manera:
1.   Activación / desactivación de batería solamente = Silencia armónicos y voces
2.  Activación / desactivación de contenido armónico solamente = Silencia batería y voz
3.  Activación / desactivación vocal solamente = Silencia batería y armónico
4.  Drum Swap On / Off (desactiva la pista de batería del canal seleccionado y activa el solo para la pista de batería del otro canal)
5.  Batería Solo Hold = Silenciar armónicos y voces
6.  Armónico Solo Hold = Silenciar batería y voz
7.   Vocal Solo Hold = Mutea Drums & Armónicos
8.  Drum Swap Hold (desactiva la pista de batería del canal seleccionado y activa el solo para la pista de batería del otro canal)
-  Looper-Mode = Activa el “Secuenciador de Looper” en djay.


                                                                                                            23

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
                        17. MODO
                 Manteniendo pulsado el botón MODE -17- se activa la selección del modo de interpretación.
                 Ahora puede seleccionar el modo de interpretación que desee a través del pad de batería correspondiente.
                        (ver: 16. Performance Pads).

                      18. SINCRONIZACIÓN
               SYNC -18- permite que el valor de BPM de una pista se aplique y ajuste automáticamente al otro deck. Pulsando SYNC -18- de nuevo, desactiva la
                   función de sincronización.

                      19. SEÑAL
                       Utilice los botones CUE -19- para crear y activar un punto de referencia temporal. Esto quea representado por un marcador blanco sobre la señal.
                       Si se presiona el botón CUE -19- durante la reproducción, la reproducción se detiene y se salta automáticamente al punto de referencia establecido
                 (modo CUE en reproducción). Si pausa la reproducción y luego presiona el botón CUE -19-, se crea un nuevo punto cue en esta posición de la pista
                 (modo CUE en pausa).

                   20. REPRODUCCIÓN / PAUSA
               PLAY / PAUSE -20- inicia / pausa la reproducción del reproductor respectivo.

                      21. AURICULARES / SALIDA CUE
                  La Salida de Auriculares / Cue -21- es para conectar sus auriculares a su Reloop BUDDY.

                   22. VOLUMEN DE LOS AURICULARES
                       Utilice el control de volumen de auriculares / cue -22- para ajustar el volumen de la señal de sus auriculares.

                   23. MEZCLA DE AURICULARES / SEÑAL
                     El control Headphone / Cue Mix -23- controla la mezcla en los auriculares permitiendo ajustar el balance entre el volumen de canal en CUE y la
                  mezcla master.
                              -  IZQUIERDA = Solo se oye la señal en CUE
                              - CENTRO = RELACIÓN 50/50
                              - DERECHA = Solo se oye la mezcla que sale por master

                   24. VOLUMEN MASTER
                     El control de volumen master -24- se utiliza para ajustar el volumen de salida general.

                   25. MASTER OUT (CINCH)
                 Su sistema principal (por ejemplo, altavoces activos) está conectado a Master Out (RCA) -25- y controlado por el control Master Volume -24-.

                   26. PUERTO DE ALIMENTACIÓN / PC USB-B
                       Utilice el puerto USB-B PC / Power -26- para conectar una computadora, así como un cable de alimentación USB para cargar su dispositivo „iOS“ /
                  Android a través del Reloop BUDDY.

               NOTA Si desea utilizar una computadora, asegúrese de que el conmutador de fuente USB -27- esté configurado en PC.

                     27. INTERRUPTOR DE FUENTE USB
                       Utilice el interruptor de fuente USB -27- para cambiar entre el modo USB que desee (operación en computadora o “iOS” / Android).


                   28. PUERTO USB-A „IOS“
                     El puerto USB-A „iOS“ -28- se utiliza para conectar un dispositivo „iOS“ / Android. Además, conecte una fuente de alimentación USB al puerto USB-B
               PC / Power -26-.ESPAÑOL
               NOTA Si desea utilizar un dispositivo „iOS“ / Android, asegúrese de que el conmutador USB Source -27- está configurado en “iOS”.

                   29. BLOQUEO KENSINGTON
                     El candado Kensington -29- sirve para proteger su Reloop Buddy contra robos.

         PINCHA EN DIFERENTES PLATAFORMAS

                  Ten en cuenta que el la funcionalidad de la aplicación puede variar, según la plataforma que se utilice. Visita la página de djay Pro en la tienda de
                     aplicaiones de la plataforma correspondiente para comprobar qué funciones son compatibles.

         REQUERIMIENTOS MÍNIMOS DEL SISTEMA:

                 Puede comprobar los requisitos del sistema necesario para funcionar tanto en „iOS“ / „iPadOS“, Android, Mac o Windows en www.algoriddim.com.

                  Mac, iOS, iPadOS, iPhone, iPad and OS X are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
               Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
                       Intel (i3/i5/i7) and Intel Core are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
                  Android is a trademark of Google LLC in the United States and other countries.
                     DJAY®, DJAY PRO®, NEURAL MIX®, and ALGORIDDIM® are registered trademarks of Algoriddim GmbH in the United States and other countries.
              NEURAL MIX  is covered by patents in the United States and other countries, which are assigned to algoriddim GmbH and identified
                     at www.algoriddim.com/patents. Additional patents pending. Issued patents include without limitation:
               US Patent No. 10,887,033 B1, US Patent No. 11,216,244 B2, US Patent No. 11,347,475 B2, JP Patent No. 6926354 B1 18:13

        DATOS TÉCNICOS:

                 Sound Card Resolution:...........................................................................24bit/48kHz
                  Frequency Response:...............................................................................20Hz-20kHz
                 S/N Ratio:....................................................................................................95db (USB)
                                    THD:..............................................................................................................<0.1%
                                   Power:..........................................................................................................DC-5V > 2A USB-B
                  Master Out:.................................................................................................RCA
                 Headphone Out:.........................................................................................3.5mm
                                 Dimensions:................................................................................................325mm (W) x 220mm (D) x 48mm (H)
                                   Weight:........................................................................................................1,042 kg

  24

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
ESPAÑOL





  25

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
        QUICK START GUIDE FOR IOS / IPAD OS WITH djay Pro





              1. DOWNLOAD djay Pro





           2. CONNECTION





                                5V/2A


                              USB-A


                                    Lightning/USB-C                                                SmartphoneiPhone
                                                                    iPadTablet


                                        USB-B



                                      Switch to
                                       iOS Mode



                                        USB-A





                     iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, iTunes, Mac and Mac OS are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. iOS is a trademark
                      containing Cisco trademark signs in the U.S. and other countries. iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, iTunes, Mac and Mac OS are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the U.S. and other
                       countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. iOS is a trademark containing Cisco trademark signs in the U.S. and other countries. Windows is a registered trademark of
                     Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries. Beatport is a trademark of Beatport, LLC. Soundcloud is trademark of SoundCloud Limited. DJAY®, DJAY PRO®,
                NEURAL MIX®, and ALGORIDDIM® are registered trademarks of Algoriddim GmbH in the United States and other countries. NEURAL MIX is covered by patents in the United States
                  and other countries, which are assigned to algoriddim GmbH and identified at www.algoriddim.com/patents. Additional patents pending. Issued patents include without limitation:
                US Patent No. 10,887,033 B1, US Patent No. 11,216,244 B2, US Patent No. 11,347,475 B2, JP Patent No. 6926354 B1 18:13. Tidal is a trademark of Aspiro AB. Beatsource is a
                    trademark of Beatsource, LLC. Android, YouTube, Google Play and the Google Play logo are registered trademarks of Google Inc.

26

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE FULL
RELOOP PRODUCT RANGE




                       MIXON 8 PRO





                     SMART DISPLAY STAND





RHP-15




               SPIN





                                                                                                                 27

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
                                                     WWW.RELOOP.COM
                                                                                                         Reloop Distribution
                                                                                                                      Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG
                                                                                                       Schuckertstrasse 28, 48153 Muenster / Germany
                                                                                                                                info@reloop.com

                                                                                                                                  Subject to alterations.
                                                                                                                                   Illustrations similar to original product.
                                                                                                                                     Misprints expected.

                                                                                                                Technische Änderungen vorbehalten.
                                                                                                                                           Alle Abbildungen ähnlich.
                                                                                                                    Keine Haftung für Druckfehler.

                                                                                       Reservado el derecho para realizar modificaciones técnicas.
                                                                                                               Todas las imágenes son similares.
                                                                         No se asumirá la responsabilidad por errores de impresión.

                                                                                                   Sous réserve de modifications techniques.
                                                                                                                Toutes les illustrations sont similaires.
                                                                                     Aucune responsabilité pour les erreurs d’impression.





                                             Declaration of Conformity


English                                                                   Deutsch
Hereby, “Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG” declares that this unit is in               Hiermit erklärt “Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG”, dass dieses Gerät den folgenden
compliance with Directive 2011/65/EU, 2014/30/EU, 2014/35/EU.                    Anforderungen der Richtlinien 2011/65/EU, 2014/30/EU, 2014/35/EU entspricht.
The full text of the EU declaration of conformity is available at the following         Der vollständige Text der EU-Konformitätserklärung ist unter der folgenden
internet address: https://www.reloop.com/product-compliance                          Internetadresse verfügbar: https://www.reloop.com/product-compliance

Español                                                                                           Fran­çai­se
Por la presente, “Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG” declara que esta unidad es         Le soussigné “Global Distribution GmbH & Co. KG”, déclare que cet appareil est
conforme con la Directiva 2011/65/EU, 2014/30/EU, 2014/35/EU.                     conforme à la Directive 2011/65/EU, 2014/30/EU, 2014/35/EU.
El texto completo de la declaración UE de conformidad está disponible en la dirección     Le texte complet de la déclaration UE de conformité est disponible à l’adresse
de Internet siguiente: https://www.reloop.com/product-compliance                       Internet suivante: https://www.reloop.com/product-compliance


 Japanese Distributor :
 2-Deck DJ Controller
 Voltage: DC-5V > 2A USB-B
 Ginza Jujiya Co., Ltd.

UK Distributor :                                     This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules.                                                             Operation is subject to the following two conditions:
 Henley Designs Ltd.                                                  (1) this device may not cause harmful Interference, and
 Unit B, Park 34, Collet                                       (2) this device must accept any interference received,
 OX11 7WB, Didcot, Oxfordshire, UK                   including interference that may cause undesired                                                                      operation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20260417