User Guide              English ( 3 – 16 )


Guía del usuario      Español ( 17 – 30 )


Guide d’utilisation   Français ( 31 – 44 )


Guida per l’uso        Italiano ( 45 – 58 )


Benutzerhandbuch      Deutsch ( 59 – 72 )


Appendix                    English ( 74 )
2
User Guide (English)
Introduction
Thank you for purchasing the X1850 PRIME. At Denon DJ, we know how serious music is to you.
That’s why we design our equipment with only one thing in mind—to make your performance the
best it can be. We’re honored and excited to play a part in your musical & creative DJ journey!

Features:
 • 4-channel digital mixer with (4) phono/line switchable channels
 • BPM FX section with frequency-controlled band isolation
 • Dual USB audio connections for software and audio devices
 • Dedicated Sweep and BPM FX knobs—high-quality effects, including new Pumper and Echo
     Hold FX, for each channel with a single knob turn
 • FX quantization for FX activation
 • Expressive EQ—choose Classic or Isolation modes and an adjustable filter resonance control
 • Engine Connect protocol for beatgrid-locked FX
 • Expressive Denon DJ Flex-Fader crossfader
 • Connect MIDI-based effects and instruments
 • 24-bit/96kHz digital output for uncompromised audio quality
 • Crisp OLED screen for precise menu-based adjustments
 • (4) digital inputs for high-resolution audio mixing
 • LAN hub for up to four players or accessories
 • Rugged metal construction
 • Locking IEC power connection

Box Contents

X1850 PRIME                    User Guide
USB Cable                      Safety & Warranty Manual
Power Cable

Support

For the latest information about this product (documentation, technical specifications, system
requirements, compatibility information, etc.), visit denondj.com.
For additional product support, visit denondj.com/support.

Product Registration
Your product may include exclusive software and/or promotions which can only be accessed by
registering your new product on the Denon DJ website.

To check eligibility and access the available content, please register your product by following the
instructions below:
1.    Visit denondj.com.
2.    Click Sign In to access your existing account or to create a new account.
3.    Once signed in, click My Registered Products.
4.    Enter the product serial number into the box and click Register Product.
5.    Upon successful registration, any applicable software downloads, exclusive content, and
      promotional offers will be shown in your account.

                                                                                                  3
 Setup
 1. Make sure all of your devices are powered off or all of their volume levels are at their minimum
     positions.
 2. Connect your media players’ audio outputs to the inputs of X1850 PRIME.
 3. If you are using compatible Denon DJ media players, connect their Link ports to X1850 PRIME’s
     Link ports according to one of the following connection diagram examples.
 4. Connect any other devices (turntables, headphones, power amplifiers, loudspeakers, etc.) to the
     inputs or outputs of X1850 PRIME.
 5. Connect all of your devices to power sources.
 When starting a session, power on (1) your media players and other input sources, (2) X1850 PRIME,
 and then (3) output devices.
 When ending a session, power off (1) output devices, (2) X1850 PRIME, and then (3) your media
 players and other input sources.

 Connection Diagrams

 Items shown but not listed under Introduction > Box Contents are sold separately.

 Example 1


Denon DJ                                                                      Denon DJ
 Media                                                                       Media Player
 Player




      Power outlet                                            Power outlet


 Example 2
            Denon DJ Media Player                                  Denon DJ Media Player




  Power                                                                                     Power
   outlet                                                                                   outlet


  Denon DJ                                                                           Denon DJ
     Media                                                                           Media
     Player                                                                          Player




  Power                                                                                     Power
   outlet                                                                                   outlet
 4
Networking
You can use X1850 PRIME to network multiple compatible Denon DJ media players together,
enabling them to seamlessly share timing and BPM information with X1850 PRIME (to synchronize
effect tempos) as well as track and user profile data with other media players.
This feature provides many advantages while performing. For instance, if you are using four
compatible Denon DJ media players, you can use one of them to browse through all tracks on all
devices (USB drives or SD cards) connected to any of those media players. You can then play any of
those tracks immediately without having to move a device from one unit to the other.

To network compatible Denon DJ media players together, use the included networking cables to
  connect each of their Link ports to a Link port (1–4) on the rear panel of your X1850 PRIME.
The Network (Media Status) light on each media player will turn on when it is properly connected to
a network.

By default, X1850 PRIME is set to detect and configure each compatible Denon DJ media player
automatically once you connect their Link ports. The Link port on X1850 PRIME will determine which
channels that media player uses. See the scenarios below.
You can also freely assign each media player layer to a specific channel by changing the Engine
Connect setting in the Utility menu on X1850 PRIME. See your media player's User Guide to learn
more about this.




                       Layer Layer                                        Layer Layer
                         A     B                                            B     A

When your media player is connected to Link When your media player is connected to Link
Port 1 on X1850 PRIME, Layer A will use Port 2 on X1850 PRIME, Layer A will use
Channel 1, and Layer B will use Channel 2.  Channel 2, and Layer B will use Channel 1.




                                     Layer Layer                                        Layer Layer
                                       A     B                                            B     A

When your media player is connected to Link When your media player is connected to Link
Port 3 on X1850 PRIME, Layer A will use Port 4 on X1850 PRIME, Layer A will use
Channel 3, and Layer B will use Channel 4.  Channel 4, and Layer B will use Channel 3.


                                                                                                 5
Features

Top Panel


                                                                    23
                               2        2        2        2
                    25         1        1        1        1        22         49
                    26              3        3        3        3 24      46 47 48
                          27
                    26              4        4        4        4
                          28 5          5        5        5        21 21      34
                    29              4        4        4        4

                    29              4        4        4        4         40 39 41
                    9
                               8        8        8        8        20      38
                    11                                                   42
                               10       10       10       10       19              43
                    32         7        7        7        7        18
                                                                         44
                               12       12       12       12
                    33                                             17
                                                                         45
                    31
                                    6        6        6        6 16
                                                                         37
                    30         13       13       13       13
                    30                           14                      35        36
                                   15                      15

1. Input Select: Turn these knobs to select the desired audio source for each channel:
    • Digital: When this option is selected, the audio source is the digital ins
    • Line: When this option is selected, the audio source is the line inputs
    • Phono: When this option is selected, the audio source is the phono inputs
    • USB: When this option is selected, the audio source is a computer connected to a USB port
    • DVS: When this option is selected, the audio source is a computer connected to a USB
        port while using control vinyl with a digital vinyl system
2. USB 1/2: When the Input Select knob is set to USB, use these switches to select USB Port 1 or
   USB Port 2 as the source. When a computer is connected to that port, the channel will control the
   corresponding channel in your software.
3. Level: Turn these knobs to adjust the level of the pre-fader, pre-EQ audio signal for each channel.
4. EQ (High, Mid, Low): Turn these knobs to boost or cut the high, mid-range, and low frequencies
   for each channel. You can use the Utility menu to set the type of EQ, which determines the
   minimum (cut) and maximum (boost) values (see Operation > Utility Menu > EQ).
5. Channel Level Meters: These LEDs display the audio signal level of each channel, pre-channel-
   fader.
6. Channel Fader: Use these faders to adjust each channel’s volume level.



6
7. Channel Cue: Press these buttons to send each channel’s pre-fader signal to the headphones’
   cue channel. Press more than one of these buttons at the same time to send their channels’
   signals to the cue channel simultaneously.
8. Filter Knob: Turn these knobs to adjust the filter applied to each channel. Turn the knob
   counter-clockwise to apply a low-pass filter. Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass filter.
9. Filter Button: Press this button to enable or disable the filters (controlled by the Filter knobs) on
   all channels.
10. Sweep FX Knob: Turn these knobs to adjust the balance between the “wet” signal (the sweep
    effect’s output signal) and “dry” signal (audio without sweep effects applied). Select the center
    (12:00) position to select an entirely dry signal.
11. Sweep FX Buttons: Press one of these buttons to enable or disable an effect that you can
    control with the Sweep FX knobs. Only one of these buttons can be enabled at a time.
     • Dub Echo: This effect is a brief echo. Starting from the center (12:00) position, turn a
         Sweep FX knob counter-clockwise to decrease the length of the delay and increase the
         feedback, or turn it clockwise to increase the length of the delay as well as the feedback.
     • Noise: This effect adds noise to the signal. Starting from the center (12:00) position, turn a
         Sweep FX knob counter-clockwise to add white noise with a time-based gate effect
         synchronized with the channel's tempo, or turn it clockwise to add white noise.
     • Wash Out: This creates a transition effect. Turn a Sweep FX knob to its most counter-
         clockwise (minimum) position to apply a 1/2-beat echo that will also mute the channel’s
         normal audio signal, or turn it to its most clockwise (maximum) position to apply a 1-beat
         echo.
     • Gate: This effect applies a time-based gate effect to the signal. Starting from the center
         (12:00) position, turn a Sweep FX knob counter-clockwise to apply a gate effect
         synchronized with the channel’s tempo, or turn it clockwise to apply a gate effect that
         attenuates the signal. The farther clockwise the knob is turned, the greater the attenuation.
12. BPM FX Indicators: These lights will illuminate to indicate if a channel is selected and being
    affected by the BPM effect module when the FX Channel Assign knob is set to Channel 1, 2, 3,
    or 4; X-Fader A or B (if the channel is assigned to the active side); or Master (all channels).
13. Crossfader Assign: Routes the audio playing on the corresponding channel to either side of the
    crossfader—A (left) or B (right)—or bypasses the crossfader and sends the audio directly to the
    program mix—Thru (center).
14. Crossfader: Use this crossfader to mix between the active decks.
15. Crossfader Indicators: These lights will illuminate to indicate if a side of the crossfader is
    selected and being affected by effects module (when the FX Channel Assign knob is set to X-
    Fader A or B).
16. X Fader Contour: Turn this knob to adjust the slope of the crossfader. Turn the knob to the left
    for a smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching). The center position is a
    typical setting for club performances.
17. Ch Fader Contour: Turn this knob to adjust the volume slope of the channel faders. Turn the
    knob counter-clockwise to have the volume get louder "later" (closer to the top of the fader).
    Turn it clockwise to have the volume get louder "earlier" (almost immediately after moving the
    fader from its minimum position). The center position is a linear volume increase.
18. X Fader Start: Use this switch to enable or disable crossfader start. When enabled, you can
    automatically start playback on compatible Denon DJ media players assigned to each side of the
    crossfader by moving the crossfader toward that side.
19. Channel Fader Start: Use this switch to enable or disable channel fader start. When enabled,
    you can automatically start playback on compatible Denon DJ media players connected to each
    channel by moving the channel fader upward.
20. Booth: Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the booth outputs.
21. Master Level Meters: These LEDs display the audio signal level of the master mix (sent out of
    the master outputs).
22. Master: Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the master outputs.

                                                                                                      7
23. Stereo/Mono Selector: Use this switch to set the channel configuration of the master outputs:
    Stereo (binaural audio using separate left and right channels) or Mono (summed monaural audio
    through both left and right channels).
24. Pan: Turn this knob to adjust the position of the master outputs’ signal in the stereo field.
25. Mic 1 Input: Use a standard XLR or 1/4” (6.35 mm) cable (not included) to connect a standard
    dynamic microphone to this input. Use the Mic 1 Level knob on the top panel to control the
    volume level.
26. Mic 1/2 Level: Turn these knobs to adjust the volume levels of the corresponding microphone
    inputs. The light next to each knob indicates the current signal level by its color: green
    (normal/optimal), orange (mid level) or red (maximum/peak).
27. Mic On/Off: Press these buttons to activate or deactivate the corresponding microphone.
28. Talk Over: Press this button to activate or deactivate the “talk over” feature, which automatically
    reduces the volume level of the master mix when you speak into the microphone. You can use
    the Utility menu to set how much the master mix volume level is lowered and how quickly it
    returns to its normal level (see Operation > Utility Menu > Microphone).
29. Mic EQ (High, Low): Turn these knobs to boost or cut the high and low frequencies for both
    microphones.
30. Headphone Outputs: Connect headphones to these 1/4” (6.35 mm) or 1/8” (3.5 mm) jacks for
    monitoring the signal. Turn the Headphone Level knob to control the volume.
31. Headphone Level: Turn this knob to adjust the volume of the headphones.
32. Split Cue: When this switch is in the On position, the headphone audio will be “split” such that
    all channels sent to cue channel are summed to mono and sent to the left headphone channel
    and the master mix is summed to mono and sent to the right channel. When the switch is in the
    Off position, the cue channel and master mix will be “blended” together.
33. Cue Mix: Turn this knob to adjust the balance between the cue output and the master mix
    output in the headphones.
34. Displays: These displays provide instant feedback about effects parameters, tempo and more.
    The displays also show the Utility menu, where you can configure hardware settings and change
    feature behaviors to match your preferred workflow by adjusting audio signal routing, effects
    module order, input and output levels, and more.
35. BPM FX On/Off: Press this button to turn the BPM effect module on or off.
36. FX Amount: Turn this knob to adjust the amount of output signal from the BPM effect module.
37. Instant: Press this button to enable or disable Instant FX Mode for the FX touch strip.
38. FX Channel Assign: Turn this knob to select the channel to which the BPM effect module will
    apply its effects: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A or B (either side of the crossfader); Mic (both
    microphone signals); or Master (the master mix).
39. FX Select/Enter: Turn this knob to select an effect. While in the Utility menu, turn this knob to
    select an option, and press it to confirm your choice or enter a submenu.
40. Back: Press this button to return to the previous screen in the Utility menu.
41. FX Cue: Press this button to preview the BPM effects in the headphones’ cue channel. Not all
    BPM effects can be previewed, though.
42. FX Time/Parameter: Turn this knob to select the rate that the BPM effect module will use. Press
    the knob to switch between adjusting the rate as a time division and the rate in milliseconds. (A
    corresponding light along the FX touch strip will illuminate to indicate the current time division.)
    This knob will also adjust other FX parameters when available.
43. FX Touch Strip: When the Instant button is off (disabled), tap an area of this touch-capacitive
    strip to select the time division that the BPM effect module will use. A corresponding light along
    the strip will illuminate to indicate the current time division. If the current time division is not a
    quantization value shown on the strip (e.g., the BeatBreak effect), then none of the lights will
    illuminate.
    When the Instant button is on (enabled), tap and hold your finger on the strip to activate the
    effects, and then drag your finger up or down to adjust the time division of the effect.

8
44. Tap/-Auto: Tap this button at least 3 times at the desired tempo to set the rate of the BPM
    effect module for the channel set by the FX Channel Assign knob (the module’s rate for other
    channels will remain unchanged). The Tap button will be dimly lit when using a BPM manually
    entered this way.
    Press and hold this button for 1 second to synchronize the rate of BPM effect module with the
    audio signal of the channel set by the FX Channel Assign knob (the module’s rate for other
    channels will remain unchanged). The Tap button will be brightly lit when using a BPM
    automatically detected this way, and Auto will be shown next to the BPM in the second display. If
    you are using a compatible Denon DJ media player with Engine Connect, the media player will
    control the BPM effect module, and the Engine logo will be shown in the second display.
45. FX Frequency: Turn this knob to select a frequency band of the audio signal to which the BPM
    effects will be applied. Select the center (12:00) position to apply effects to the entire spectrum
    of frequencies.
46. Quantize/-Utility: Press this button to quantize the BPM FX to media players connected to the
    Link ports.
    Press and hold this button to enter or exit the Utility menu, which will appear in the display.
    Exiting the Utility menu also saves any changes you made.
47. MIDI Start/Stop: Press this button to send a MIDI Start or MIDI Stop message out of the USB
    port or MIDI output (you can use the Utility menu to select one). The tempo will be that of the
    selection of the FX Channel Assign knob. If you change the selection of the FX Channel Assign
    knob, press and hold this button to send the new tempo.
48. Engine Connect: When the Link ports are connected to compatible Denon DJ media players,
    press this button to enable X1850 PRIME to receive timing and BPM information (to synchronize
    effect tempos) and to send track and user profile data between media players.
    Press and hold this button to show the manual channel assignment on the displays of
    compatible media players.
49. USB Ports: Use standard USB cables to connect computers to these USB ports.



Rear Panel



                          1               11
                  2                             10 10 10 10                      13
                                 8       9                               12
                                               15
                        4                  7         14
                                5 6             16           3 3 3 3 3
1. Power Input: Use the included locking power cable to connect this input to a power outlet. To
   remove the power cable, push down on the yellow tab and then pull the cable out of the input.
   You can also use a standard IEC power cable in place of the included locking power cable.
2. Power Button: Press this button to power X1850 PRIME on or off. Power on X1850 PRIME only
   after you have connected all of your input devices and before you power on your amplifiers and
   loudspeakers. Power off your amplifiers and loudspeakers before powering off X1850 PRIME.
3. Link Ports: Use standard networking cables to connect these ports to your compatible Denon DJ
   media players and/or to your computer. Each networked media player can use these connections
   to share timing and BPM information with X1850 PRIME (to synchronize effect tempos) as well as
   track and user profile data with other media players.
4. Master Outputs (balanced XLR): Use standard XLR cables to connect these outputs to
   loudspeakers or an amplifier system. Use the Master knob on the top panel to control the
   volume level.

                                                                                                     9
5. Master Outputs (unbalanced RCA): Use standard RCA cables to connect these outputs to
   loudspeakers or an amplifier system. Use the Master knob on the top panel to control the
   volume level.
6. Record Outputs (RCA): Use standard RCA cables to connect these outputs to a recording
   interface, external mixer, or other device. Use the Utility menu to select whether or not the mix
   sent to these outputs will include the microphones’ audio signal (see Operation > Utility Menu
   > Microphone).
7. Booth Outputs (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Use standard 1/4”/6.35 mm cables to connect these
   outputs to booth monitors or a booth amplifier system. Use the Booth knob on the top panel to
   control the volume level. Use the Utility menu to select whether or not the mix sent to these
   outputs will include the microphones’ audio signal (see Operation > Utility Menu >
   Microphone).
8. Send Outputs (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Connect these outputs to the inputs of an external effects
   module or other device.
9. Receive Inputs (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Connect these inputs to the outputs of an external effects
   module or other device. You can use the Utility menu to set the level of this audio signal (see
   Operation > Utility Menu > FX).
10. Phono/Line Inputs (RCA): Use standard RCA cables to connect these line-level or phono-level
    inputs to an external audio source. Use the input selectors on the top panel to set whether the
    signal from the line-level inputs or phono-level inputs will be sent to each channel.
11. Grounding Terminal: If you are using phono-level turntables with a grounding wire, connect the
    grounding wire to this terminal. If you experience a low “hum” or “buzz”, this could mean that
    your turntables are not grounded.
     Note: Some turntables have a grounding wire built into the RCA connection and, therefore,
     nothing needs to be connected to the grounding terminal.
12. Mic 2 Input (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Use a standard 1/4” (6.35 mm) cable (not included) to connect
    a standard dynamic microphone to this input. Use the Mic 2 Level knob on the top panel to
    control the volume level.
13. MIDI Output (5-pin DIN): Use a standard MIDI cable to connect this output to the MIDI input of
    an optional external MIDI device. You can use the MIDI Send button to send MIDI Start
    messages from this output. You can also use the Utility menu to enable or disable this
    connection (see Operation > Utility Menu > System).
14. Digital In (digital RCA): Use digital RCA cables to connect these 24-bit/96 KHz inputs to the
    digital outputs of your compatible Denon DJ media players.
15. Digital Link In (digital RCA): If you are using more than one X1850 PRIME unit, use a digital RCA
    cable to connect this input to the digital out of another X1850 PRIME.
16. Digital Out (digital RCA): Use a digital RCA cable to connect this output to the digital input of
    another X1850 PRIME unit or an external interface, mixer, or other device. Use the Utility menu to
    set the level of the outgoing signal (see Operation > Utility Menu > Advanced Audio).




10
Operation

Effects

BPM Effect Module

The built-in effect module enables you to apply any one of several effects to specific channels based on its
current tempo.

To turn the BPM effect module on or off, press BPM FX On/Off.

To select the channel to which the BPM effect module will apply its effects, turn the FX Channel
  Assign knob. The options are: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A or B (either side of the crossfader); Mic
  (both microphone signals); or Master (the master mix).
To apply or remove the effect to or from the cue channel, press FX Cue. When the button is lit, effects
  will be applied to the headphones’ cue channel only.

To select an effect, turn the FX Select/Enter knob. These are the available effects:
 •   Echo: This effect adds echoes of the original signal. Use the FX Parameter knob to set the Feedback
     level of the echo effect.
 •   Delay: This effect adds repeated instances of the original signal that decay over time.
 •   Hall Echo: This effect adds a combination of reverb and echo. Use the FX Parameter knob to set the
     Decay level of the echo effect.
 •   Ping Pong: This is a stereo delay effect where the rate of delay is different between the left and right
     channels.
 •   Auto Gate: This effect cuts off the original signal at a regular rate.
 •   Flanger: This effect adds a slightly delayed copy of the original signal to create a comb-filter effect
     (often referred to as resembling a jet plane engine).
 •   Filter: This effect varies the filter cutoff frequency at a regular rate.
 •   Phaser: This effect adds a copy of the original signal with its phase shifted slightly to create a subtle,
     modulatory effect.
 •   Bit Crush: This effect adds a low bit-rate filter. Use the FX Parameter knob to set the Bit Average and
     Bit Depth to change the sound of the effect.
 •   Reverb: This effect adds reverberation to the original signal. The amount of delay depends on the tempo.
     Use the FX Parameter knob to adjust the Decay of the reverb, and press the FX Parameter knob
     while the reverb is active to "freeze" the reverb and kill the channel audio.
 •   Roll: This effect samples the current audio signal and repeats it at a regular rate based on the current
     time division.
 •   RevRoll (reverse roll): This effect samples the current audio signal and repeats it backward at a
     regular rate based on the current time division.
 •   BeatBreak: This effect samples the 4 beats of each bar of the original signal and replays them (within
     the same bar) according to a preset pattern, creating a “stuttering,” “breakbeat” effect.
        To select a pattern to use, turn the FX Time knob to select Pattern 0–15, as shown in the second
          display. The 16 blocks ( █ ) and/or lines ( __ ) below it indicate the rhythm of the current pattern
          similar to a drum machine’s step sequencer: a block represents a “hit”/”strike” and a line
          represents a rest.
        Examples:
                                                              indicates a hit on each beat.
                                                              indicates a hit on every 8th note.
                                                              indicates a hit on every 16th note (every note of
                                                              the pattern).
        Use the Utility menu to edit the patterns (see Utility Menu > FX).



                                                                                                                  11
 •      Scratch: This effect alternates between normal and reverse playback of each beat, creating a vinyl-
        scratching effect.
 •      Pumper: This effect attenuates or "ducks" audio on the downbeat, similar to a sidechain compressor.
        The available parameters are:
          o Duck: Sets the volume attenuation: -2dB to -20dB.
          o Offset: Sets the ducking offset time in beats: -1/16, -1/8, -1/4 or -1/2.
 •      Echo Hold: This effect applies an echo that, when the FX Amount knob is turned clockwise past the
        center point, hold repeats on the last echo. Turn the FX Amount Knob back counter-clockwise past
        the center point to remove the echo hold.
 •      SendRtn (send/return): This option will enable the send outputs and receive inputs, allowing you to
        use external effects on the signal.

All of the BPM effects are time-based, so the BPM effect module offers several ways for you enter or detect
the tempo it will use.
        To adjust the time division of the BPM effect module, do either of the following:
             •    Make sure the time division (__ Beat) is selected in the lower display (if it is not, press the
                  FX Time knob), and then turn the FX Time knob to select another time division.
             •    When the Instant button is off, tap an area of the FX touch strip to select a time division. A
                  corresponding light along the strip will illuminate to indicate the current time division.
        To adjust the rate of the BPM effect module in milliseconds, make sure the millisecond rate
          (__ ms) is selected in the lower display (if it is not, press the FX Time knob), and then turn the FX
          Time knob to adjust it.

To enter a new tempo, press Tap at least 3 times at the desired tempo. This will set the rate of the BPM
  effect module for the channel set by the FX Channel Assign knob (the module’s rate for other channels
  will remain unchanged). The Tap button will be dimly lit when using a BPM manually entered this way.
To detect the tempo automatically, press and hold Tap/-Auto for 1 second. This will synchronize the rate
  of the BPM effect module with the audio signal of the channel set by the FX Channel Assign knob (the
  module’s rate for other channels will remain unchanged). The Tap button will be brightly lit when using a
  BPM automatically detected this way, and Auto will be shown next to the BPM in the second display.
     Note: If you are using a compatible media player with Engine Connect, the media player will control the
     BPM effect module, and the Engine logo will be shown in the second display.
To adjust the tempo manually, press and hold Tap/-Auto, and then turn the FX Time knob to adjust the
  BPM in increments of 1. While still holding Tap/-Auto, press and turn the FX Time knob to adjust the
  BPM in increments of 0.1.
To enable FX quantization, use the FX Quantize setting in Utility Menu > FX. When enabled, BPM FX will
  activate starting on a beat or beat increment using the beat grid of a compatible media player.

You can easily change the amount of FX signal to adjust the balance between the “wet” signal (the BPM
effect module’s output signal) and “dry” signal (audio without effects applied).
        To adjust the balance between the “wet” and “dry” signals, turn the FX Amount knob. Alternatively,
          use the FX touch strip while in Instant FX Mode (see below).

Normally, you would apply effects to the entire frequency spectrum, but X1850 PRIME also lets you apply
them to an isolated frequency band of the audio signal (of the selected channel).
        To select the frequency band, turn the FX Frequency knob. Select the center (12:00) position to
          apply effects to the entire spectrum of frequencies.

Instant FX Mode allows you to use the FX touch strip to activate the effect and adjust its time division
simultaneously.
        To enable or disable Instant FX Mode, press Instant. The button will light up when it is enabled.
        To activate the effect, tap and hold your finger on the FX touch strip, and then drag your finger up
          or down to adjust the time division of the effect.




12
Sweep FX
Sweep FX allows you to apply one of four effects to the four channels and “sweep” them using the Sweep
FX knobs. You can apply only one sweep effect at a time.

To activate a sweep effect, tap one of the Sweep FX buttons: Dub Echo, Noise, Wash Out, or Gate. The
  button will light up when activated. Only one of these buttons can be enabled at a time.
To deactivate a sweep effect, tap the lit Sweep FX button. Alternatively, press a different Sweep FX button
  to activate it, which will deactivate the other.

For all sweep effects, the center (“12:00”) position of the Sweep FX knob bypasses the effect. Turning the
Sweep FX knob clockwise or counter-clockwise from this position applies the effect, and can produce
different results in each direction depending on the type of effect. The available sweep effects and their
functions are as follows:
 •   Dub Echo: This effect adds a brief echo. Turn a Sweep FX knob counter-clockwise to decrease the
     length of the delay and increase the feedback, or turn it clockwise to increase the length of the delay
     as well as the feedback.
 •   Noise: This effect adds noise to the signal. Turn a Sweep FX knob counter-clockwise to add white
     noise with a time-based gate effect synchronized with the channel's tempo, or turn it clockwise to add
     white noise.
 •   Wash Out: This creates a transition effect. Turn a Sweep FX knob to its most counter-clockwise
     (minimum) position to apply a 1/2-beat echo that will also mute the channel’s normal audio signal, or
     turn it to its most clockwise (maximum) position to apply a 1-beat echo.
 •   Gate: This effect applies a time-based gate effect to the signal. Turn a Sweep FX knob counter-
     clockwise to apply a gate effect synchronized with the channel’s tempo, or turn it clockwise to apply a
     gate effect that attenuates the signal. The farther clockwise the knob is turned, the greater the
     attenuation.



Utility Menu

The Utility menu enables you to customize various settings on X1850 PRIME that affect the audio signal
routing, effects module, input and output levels, and more.

To enter or exit the Utility menu, press and hold Quantize/-Utility. Exiting the Utility menu also saves any
  changes you made.

While in the Utility menu, you can do any of the following:
 •   To select an option, turn the FX Select/Enter knob.
 •   To confirm your choice or enter a submenu, press the FX Select/Enter knob.
 •   To return to the previous screen, press Back.

Below are descriptions of the different submenus in the Utility menu:


EQ
These settings determine how the Channel EQ knobs work.
 •   Type: Select ISO to set the Channel EQ knobs’ ranges to -∞ to +6dB/+10dB (as labeled). Select EQ
     to set the Channel EQ knobs’ ranges to -24dB to +6dB (for other players that may need this setting).
 •   High Cross Over: This is the crossover frequency between the High and Mid EQ knobs when the
     Type is set to ISO: 1000Hz–8000Hz (in varying increments).
 •   Low Cross Over: This is the crossover frequency between the Mid and Low EQ knobs when the Type
     is set to ISO: 100Hz–800Hz (in varying increments).
 •   Reset EQ Default: Select OK to return these Channel EQ settings to their default values, or select
     Cancel to return to the previous menu.

                                                                                                         13
Filter
 •   Resonance: This is the resonance of the filters on Channels 1–4 (i.e., how much the frequencies just
     beyond the cutoff frequency are allowed to pass through the filter). 0 is a flat setting (frequencies just
     beyond the cutoff frequency won’t be heard at all), while 15 yields a high resonance (the cutoff
     frequency is not as “strict,” so some adjacent frequencies will be heard).
 •   Extreme Type: This setting determines the effect of the Sweep Filters at the extreme low and high
     ends. Select Kill for the filter extremes to end in silence, or select Bleed to allow the extreme end of the
     filter to play.


Headphone
 •   Attenuation: This is the gain level of the headphone output: -10dB to +10dB.
 •   Split Cue Output: This sets which side of the stereo signal plays the Cue program on headphones,
     Left or Right.


Microphone
These settings affect the microphones.
 •   Attenuation: This is the gain level of the microphone inputs: -15dB to +0dB.
 •   Gate Threshold: This setting changes the amount of audio required to engage the mic signal.
     Different types of microphones may require this to be adjusted for best use: -40dB to -79dB.
 •   Talk Over Level: This setting determines how much the master mix volume level is lowered when the
     microphone talkover feature is activated: -40dB to -20dB.
 •   Talk Over Resume: While using the talkover feature, the master mix volume will return to its normal
     level after the microphone input detects no incoming signal. This setting determines whether that
     transition occurs moderately (Normal) or quickly (Fast).
 •   EQ High: This is the frequency band that will be affected by the High Mic EQ knob: 1,000Hz–
     10,000Hz (in varying increments).
 •   EQ Low: This is the frequency band that will be affected by the Low Mic EQ knob: 100Hz–900Hz (in
     varying increments).
 •   Booth Receive: Select On to allow the microphone signal to be sent to the booth outputs. Select Off
     to remove the microphone signal from the booth outputs.
 •   Headphone Receive: Select On to allow the microphone signal to be sent to the headphones. Select
     Off to remove the microphone signal from the headphone outputs.
 •   Reset Mic Default: Select OK to return the Mic settings to their default values, or select Cancel to
     return to the previous menu.


FX
These settings affect the FX on X1850 PRIME.
 •   FX Return: This is the unity level for the send outputs and receive inputs: -10dB–+10dB. You may
     need to adjust this setting based on the types of external effects you are using.
 •   Beat Break Edit: This menu enables you to select, edit, and store patterns for the BeatBreak effect.
     See Effects > BPM Effect Module for more information about how this effect works.
     To edit a pattern:
     1.   Turn the FX Select/Enter knob to select a pattern (1–16), and then press it.
     2.   Turn the FX Select/Enter knob to select one of 12 16th-notes in the pattern. You cannot edit the four
          main beats of the pattern; they will always sound because they contain the audio being sampled.
          Press the FX Select/Enter knob to change the beat from a “hit”/“strike” ( █ ) to a rest ( __ ) or vice
          versa.
          Repeat this step, if desired.
     3.   Press Back to return to the previous screen.


14
 •   FX List Customize: Use this screen to customize the order of effects. Turn the FX Select/Enter knob
     to select an effect from the list of available ones on the left side, and then press the knob to add the
     effect to the new order on the right side. Repeat this step for each effect, or select -Cancel- to return to
     the previous screen. After you have done this for all effects, select -End- to save your customized list.
 •   BPM FX On Color: This setting determines the color of the BPM FX On/Off button while it flashes:
     red, spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange, or purple.
 •   Noise Level: This setting determines the level of noise when using the Noise Sweep FX: -20dB to
     +15dB.
 •   FX Quantize: This setting determines the amount of time FX will wait before turning on after the BPM
     FX button is activated: 1, 1/2, 1/4, or 1/8 beat. This will keep the FX in time with the beat grid of
     connected media players.
 •   FX Limiter: Turn this setting On to limit the volume of the FX output so it is equal to the input from the
     channel. Select Off to apply no limiter to the FX.


Advanced Audio
These settings determine the mixer’s digital operation and other advanced functions.
 •   Sampling Rate: This is the sampling rate of the USB audio signal: 44.1kHz, 48kHz, or 96kHz.
 •   Master Out Level: This is an offset to the volume level of the master outputs: -15dB to 0dB.
 •   Master Limiter: This applies a limiter to the master output: 20dB to 0dB. Select Off to apply no limiter
     to the master output.
 •   Booth Settings: These settings determine the routing for booth audio:
       o   Booth Pan: This setting determines whether the booth audio can be panned along with the
           master audio (Enable) or not (Disable).
       o   Booth Out Level: This is an offset to the volume level of the booth: 0dB to -15dB.
 •   USB Audio: These settings determine the routing and levels of USB audio.
       o   CH1–4/Master/Cue Assign: These settings determine which USB audio channels (1/2–9/10) will
           receive the audio signal from Channels 1–4 (CH1–CH4), and the master mix (Master).
       o   Output Level: This is an offset to the volume level of the master mix sent to your computer over
           a USB connection: -20dB to +20dB.
       o   Ch Input Level: This is an offset to the volume level of the audio signals sent to Channels 1–4
           from your computer over a USB connection: -20dB to +20dB.
       o   Broadcast Mode: When set to On, this option allows you to send the master signal to your
           computer over USB audio channels 1–2 for use with broadcasting software. Set to Off to disable
           Broadcast Mode.
           Note: When Broadcast Mode is enabled, a message will appear to indicate that DVS on Channel
           1 will be disabled. Press Enter to continue.
 •   DVS Setup: For Channels 1–4 (CH1–CH4), select the input level each one will use when its input
     selector is set to DVS. Select Phono to use control vinyl records or Line to use control CDs.
 •   Digital Settings:
       o   Digital Out: This is an offset to the volume level of the audio signal sent from the digital out:
           -20dB to +20dB.
       o   Digital Link: Select On to sum the outgoing signal before the Master knob and Booth knob,
           which you can use to control their output level. Select Off to sum the outgoing signal after the
           Master knob and Booth knob, which will have no effect on the output level.
       o   Link Level: This is an offset to the volume level of the audio signal sent to the Digital Link In:
           -20dB to +20dB.
 •   Cross Fader Cut: These settings determine how far you must move the crossfader from each side
     (Fader Cut A or B) for it to start affecting the audio signal: -2.0mm to 1.0mm




                                                                                                              15
System
These settings determine overall operation.
 •   Info: These screens contain information about the current firmware version and network information.
       o   Version: This is the current X1850 PRIME firmware version.
       o   IP Address: This is the IP address that X1850 PRIME is using.
       o   MAC Address: This is the MAC address that X1850 PRIME is using.
       o   Hardware: This is the current hardware version.
 •   Display:
       o   Display Brightness: This setting changes the brightness of the OLED display: Low, Med, or
           High.
       o   LED Brightness: This setting changes the brightness of all LEDs on the control surface: Low,
           Med, or High.
 •   Engine Connect: Select Auto to enable X1850 PRIME to automatically receive timing and BPM
     information (to synchronize effect tempos) from compatible media players connected to its Link ports
     and to send track and user profile data between them. X1850 PRIME will also automatically detect
     and configure each media player once you connect their Link ports. Select Manual to disable
     automatic linking and only activate this feature manually by pressing and holding the Engine Connect
     button until the Channel Assignment screen appears on the media players. You can then freely assign
     each media player layer to a specific channel.
 •   Cue Settings:
       o   Cue Solo Mode: Select On to use the Channel Cue buttons as “solo” buttons (pressing one will
           mute all other channels). Select Off to use them as normal cue buttons (pressing one will send
           its signal to the cue channel).
       o   Inactive Cue State: This setting determines the off state of the Cue LEDs: DIM or Off.
       o   Cue 1–4 Color: This setting determines the color of the Cue buttons for each channel: red,
           spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange, or purple.
       o   Reset Cue Defaults: Select OK to return the Cue settings to their default values, or select
           Cancel to return to the previous menu.
 •   Contour Lock: When set to On, this setting locks the Crossfader Contour to the current knob position
     so it is not changed if the knob is moved. Set to Off to disable the lock.
 •   Through Position Lock: When set to On, this setting locks the Crossfader Assign switches to the
     Thru position so it is not changed if the switch is moved. Set to Off to disable the lock.
 •   Network Settings:
       o   Refresh IP Address: Select OK to renew your IP address, which reestablishes the connection
           between your X1850 PRIME and any compatible Denon DJ media players connected to the Link
           ports. Select Cancel to return to the previous screen.
 •   MIDI: These are MIDI settings that determine how the MIDI connections are used.
       o   Clock Send: These settings determine whether or not X1850 PRIME will send MIDI Clock
           messages over each of these connections. For each option, select On to enable transmission or
           Off to disable it.
                USB: This applies to both USB Ports 1 and 2. If you are using X1850 PRIME to control
                 software, set this to On.
                5pin: This applies to the MIDI out.
       o   Active Send: These settings determine whether or not X1850 PRIME will send normal MIDI
           messages over each of these connections. For each option, select On to enable transmission or
           Off to disable it.
                USB: This applies to both USB Ports 1 and 2. If you are using X1850 PRIME to control
                 software, set this to On.
                5pin: This applies to the MIDI out.
 •   Factory Reset: Select OK to restore X1850 PRIME to its factory default settings (wait a few seconds
     after selecting this before resuming normal operation). Select Cancel to return to the previous screen.



16
Guía del usuario (Español)
Introducción
Gracias por comprar el X1850 PRIME. En Denon DJ, sabemos que usted se toma la música en serio. Por
eso es que diseñamos nuestros equipos con una sola cosa en mente—hacer que pueda tocar su mejor
interpretación. ¡Nos sentimos muy honrados y entusiasmados de participar en su viaje musical y creativo
como DJ!

Características:
 • Mezclador digital de 4 canales con (4) canales conmutables de fonográfico/línea
 • Sección de efectos de BPM con aislamiento de banda controlado por frecuencia
 • Conexiones de audio USB dobles para software y dispositivos de audio
 • Perillas dedicadas para barrido y efectos de BPM—efectos de alta calidad para cada canal con un
    solo giro de la perilla
 • Perillas dedicadas para los efectos Sweep y BPM FX —efectos de alta calidad, incluyendo nuevos
    efectos Pumper y Echo Hold FX, para cada canal con solo girar una perilla
 • Cuantificación de efectos para la activación de efectos
 • Ecualizador expresivo—elija modos clásicos o de aislamiento y un control de resonancia de filtro
    ajustable
 • Protocolo Engine Connect para efectos vinculados a la grilla de beats
 • Expresivo crossfader Denon DJ Flex-Fader
 • Conecte efectos e instrumentos basados en MIDI
 • Salida digital de 24 bits/ 96 kHz para una calidad de audio impecable
 • Sus nítidas pantallas OLED permiten realizar ajustes precisos en base a los menús
 • (4) entradas digitales para mezclas de audio de alta resolución
 • Concentrador LAN para hasta cuatro jugadores o accesorios
 • Construcción metálica robusta
 • Toma de corriente IEC con traba


Contenido de la caja
X1850 PRIME                       Guía del usuario
Cable USB                         Manual sobre la seguridad y garantía
Cable de alimentación


Soporte
Para obtener la información más reciente acerca de este producto (documentación, especificaciones
técnicas, requisitos de sistema, información de compatibilidad, etc.), visite denondj.com.
Para obtener soporte adicional del producto, visite denondj.com/support.

Registro del producto
Su producto puede incluir software y/o promociones exclusivas a las que sólo se puede acceder
registrando su producto nuevo en el sitio web de Denon DJ.

Para verificar su elegibilidad y acceso al contenido disponible, sírvase registrar su producto siguiendo las
instrucciones a continuación:
1.   Visite denondj.com.
2.   Haga clic en Sign In (Iniciar sesión) para acceder a su cuenta existente o cree una nueva.
3.   Una vez que haya iniciado sesión, haga clic en My Registered Products (Mis productos registrados).
4.   Introduzca el número de serie del producto en el recuadro y haga clic en Register Product (Registrar
     producto).
5.   Una vez registrado exitosamente, toda descarga de software, contenido exclusivo y ofertas
     promocionales aplicables se mostrarán en su cuenta.

                                                                                                         17
Instalación
1.   Asegúrese de que todos sus dispositivos estén apagados o que todos sus niveles de volumen estén
     en sus posiciones mínimas.
2. Conecte las salidas de audiode su reproductor de medios a las entradas del X1850 PRIME.
3. Si está utilizando compatibles reproductores de medios de Denon DJ, conecte sus puertos Link a los
     puertos Link del X1850 PRIME según uno de los siguientes ejemplos de diagramas de conexión.
4. Conecte otros dispositivos (giradiscos, auriculares, amplificadores de potencia, altavoces, etc.) a las
     entradas o las salidas del X1850 PRIME.
5. Conecte todos sus dispositivos a sus fuentes de corriente.
Al iniciar una sesión, encienda (1) sus reproductores de medios y las demás fuentes de entrada, (2) el X1850
PRIME y luego (3) los dispositivos de salida.
Al finalizar una sesión, apague (1) los dispositivos de salida, (2) el X1850 PRIME y luego (3) sus
reproductores de medios y las demás fuentes de entrada.


Diagramas de conexion

Los elementos que se muestran pero que no se enumeran en Introducción > Contenido de la caja se
venden por separado.

Ejemplo 1
 Reproductor de                                                               Reproductor de
   medios de                                                                    medios de
   Denon DJ                                                                     Denon DJ




     Suministro electrico                                         Suministro electrico


Ejemplo 2




Suministro                                                                                      Suministro
electrico                      Reproductores                      Reproductores                   electrico
                               de medios de                       de medios de
                                 Denon DJ                           Denon DJ




Suministro                                                                                      Suministro
electrico                                                                                         electrico




18
Conexiones en red

Puede utilizar el X1850 PRIME para conectar en red múltiples compatibles reproductores de medios de
Denon DJ permitiéndoles compartir de forma transparente información de sincronización y BPM con el
X1850 PRIME (a fin de sincronizar los tempos de los efectos) así como también los datos de la pista y del
perfil del usuario con otros reproductores de medios.
Esta característica brinda algunas ventajas para sus actuaciones. Por ejemplo, si está usando cuatro
compatibles reproductores de medios de Denon DJ, puede usar una de ellas para explorar todas las pistas
en todos los dispositivos (unidades USB o tarjetas SD) conectadas a cualquiera de estos reproductores de
medios. Entonces podrá reproducir cualquiera de estas pistas inmediatamente sin tener que trasladar un
dispositivo desde una unidad a otra.

Para conectar reproductores de medios Denon DJ entre sí, utilice los cables de conexión de red
  incluidos para conectar cada uno de sus puertos Link a un puerto Link (1–4) del panel trasero de su
  X1850 PRIME.
La luz Network (Media Status) de cada reproductor de medios se encenderá cuando esté correctamente
conectado a una red.

Por defecto, el X1850 PRIME está configurado para detectar y configurar cada reproductor de medios
Denon DJ compatible de forma automática una vez conectados sus puertos Link. El puerto Link del X1850
PRIME determinará los canales que el reproductor de medios utilizará. Vea los siguientes escenarios.
Se puede asignar cada capa del reproductor de medios libremente a un canal específico modificando el
ajuste Engine Connect en el menú de utilidades en el X1850 PRIME. Para aprender más sobre esto,
consulte la Guía del usuario de su reproductor de medios.


   Puerto Link 1                                        Puerto Link 2




                         Layer Layer                                          Layer Layer
                           A     B                                              B     A



   Puerto Link 3                                        Puerto Link 4




                                       Layer Layer                                          Layer Layer
                                         A     B                                              B     A




                                                                                                      19
Características

Panel superior


                                                                        23
                                   2        2        2        2
                        25         1        1        1        1        22         49
                        26              3        3        3        3 24      46 47 48
                              27
                        26              4        4        4        4
                              28 5          5        5        5        21 21      34
                        29              4        4        4        4

                        29              4        4        4        4         40 39 41
                         9
                                   8        8        8        8        20      38
                        11                                                   42
                                   10       10       10       10       19              43
                        32         7        7        7        7        18
                                                                             44
                                   12       12       12       12
                        33                                             17
                                                                             45
                        31
                                        6        6        6        6 16
                                                                             37
                        30         13       13       13       13
                        30                           14                      35        36
                                       15                      15

1.   Input Select: Gire estas perillas para seleccionar la fuente de audio deseada para cada canal:
      • Digital: Cuando se selecciona esta opción, la fuente de audio son las entradas digitales
      • Line: Cuando se selecciona esta opción, la fuente de audio son las entradas de línea
      • Phono: Cuando se selecciona esta opción, la fuente de audio son las entradas fonográficas
      • USB: Cuando se selecciona esta opción, la fuente de audio es un ordenador conectado a un
        puerto USB
      • DVS: Cuando se selecciona esta opción, la fuente de audio es un ordenador conectado a un
        puerto USB mientras se utiliza un vinilo de control con un sistema de vinilo digital
2.   USB 1/2: Cuando la perilla Input Select se ajusta a USB, utilice estos interruptores para seleccionar el
     puerto USB 1 o el puerto USB 2 como la fuente. Cuando hay un ordenador conectado a ese puerto, el
     canal controlará el canal correspondiente en su software.
3.   Level: Gire estas perillas para ajustar el nivel de la señal de audio del pre-fader y pre-ecualizador de
     cada canal.
4.   Ecualizador (High, Mid, Low): Gire estas perillas para aumentar o disminuir las frecuencias altas,
     medias y bajas de cada canal. Puede usar el menú Utilidades para ajustar el tipo de ecualizador, el cual
     determina los valores mínimos (corte) y máximos (refuerzo) (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú
     Utilidades > EQ).
5.   Medidores de nivel de canal: Estos LED muestran el nivel de la señal de audio de cada canal, previo
     al fader del canal.
6.   Fader del canal: Utilice estos faders para ajustar el nivel del volumen de cada canal.


20
7.   Cue del canal: Pulse estos botones para enviar la señal pre-fader de cada canal al canal de cue de los
     auriculares. Pulse más de uno de estos botones al mismo tiempo para enviar las señales de sus
     canales al canal de cue simultáneamente.
8.   Perilla Filter: Gire estas perillas para ajustar el filtro aplicado a cada canal. Gire esta perilla en sentido
     antihorario para aplicar un filtro pasabajos. Gire esta perilla en sentido horario para aplicar un filtro pasaaltos.
9.   Botón Filter: Pues este botón para activar o desactivar los filtros (controlados por las perillas Filter) en
     todos los canales.
10. Perilla Sweep FX: Gire estas perillas para ajustar el balance entre la señal “con efecto” (la señal de
    salida del efecto de barrido) y la señal “sin efecto” (el audio sin los efectos de barrido aplicados).
    Seleccione la posición central (12:00) para seleccionar una señal sin absolutamente ningún efecto.
11. Botón Sweep FX: Pulse uno de estos botones para activar o desactivar un efecto que pueda controlar
    con las perillas Sweep FX. Sólo se puede activar uno de estos botones a la vez.
      •    Dub Echo: Este efecto consta de un breve eco. Partiendo de la posición central (12:00) gire una
           perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para disminuir la longitud del delay (retardo) y aumentar
           la retroalimentación o gírela en sentido horario para aumentar la longitud del delay así como
           también la retroalimentación.
      •    Noise: Este efecto le agrega ruido a la señal. Comenzando desde la posición central (12 en
           punto), gire una perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para agregar ruido blanco con un efecto
           de compuerta basado en el tiempo sincronizado con el tempo del canal o gírela en sentido
           horario para agregar ruido blanco.
      •    Wash Out: Este botón crea un efecto de transición. Gire una perilla Sweep FX a su posición más
           antihoraria (mínimo) para aplicar un eco de 1/2 beat que también silenciara la señal de audio
           normal del canal o gírela a su posición más horaria (máxima) para aplicar un eco de 1 beat.
      •    Gate: Este efecto aplica un efecto de compuerta basada en el tiempo a la señal. Partiendo de la
           posición central (12:00), gire una perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para aplicar un efecto
           de compuerta sincronizado con el tempo del canal o gírela en sentido horario para aplicar el
           mismo efecto, pero atenuando la señal. Cuanto más se gire la perilla en sentido horario, mayor
           será la atenuación.
12. Indicadores BPM FX: Estas luces se encienden para indicar si un canal está seleccionado y afectado
    por el módulo de efectos de BPM cuando la perilla FX Channel Assign se ajusta a Channel 1, 2, 3 o 4;
    X-Fader A o B (si el canal está asignado al lado activo) o Master (todos los canales).
13. Asignación del crossfader: Aplica el audio que se reproduce en el canal correspondiente a cualquiera
    de los lados del crossfader—A (izquierda) o B (derecha)—o puentea el crossfader y envía el audio
    directamente a la mezcla del programa—Thru (centro).
14. Crossfader: Utilice este crossfader para mezclar las bandejas activas.
15. Indicadores del crossfader: Estas luces se encienden para indicar si un lado del crossfader está
    seleccionado y afectado por el módulo de efectos (cuando la perilla FX Channel Assign se ajusta a X-
    Fader A o B).
16. X Fader Contour: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la pendiente del crossfader. Gire la perilla a la izquierda
    para una fusión suave (mezcla) o a la derecha para un corte abrupto (rayado). La posición central es un
    ajuste típico para actuaciones en clubes.
17. Ch Fader Contour: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la pendiente de volumen de los faders de canal. Gire
    la perilla en sentido antihorario para hacer que el volumen se levante "más tarde" (más cerca del
    extremo del fader). Gírela en sentido horario para hacer que el volumen se levante "más temprano"
    (casi inmediatamente después de mover el fader de su posición mínima). La posición central es un
    aumento de volumen lineal.
18. X Fader Start: Utilice este interruptor para activar o desactivar el inicio mediante crossfader. Una vez
    activado, puede iniciar automáticamente la reproducción de los compatibles reproductores de medios
    de Denon DJ asignadas a cada lado del crossfader moviéndolo hacia ese lado.
19. Channel Fader Start: Utilice este interruptor para activar o desactivar el inicio del canal mediante fader.
    Una vez activado, puede iniciar automáticamente la reproducción de los compatibles reproductores de
    medios de Denon DJ conectadas a cada canal moviendo el fader del canal hacia arriba.
20. Booth: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el nivel de volumen de las salidas de cabina.
21. Medidores de nivel maestro: Estos LED exhiben el nivel de la señal de audio de la mezcla maestra
    (enviada hacia afuera por las salidas maestras).
22. Master: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de las salidas maestras.


                                                                                                                      21
23. Selector estéreo/mono: Utilice este interruptor para ajustar la configuración del canal de las salidas
    maestras: Estéreo (audio binaural que utiliza canales izquierdo y derecho separados) o Mono (audio
    monoaural sumado a través de ambos canales izquierdo y derecho).
24. Pan: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la posición de la señal de las salidas maestras en el campo estéreo.
25. Entrada de micrófono 1: Utilice un cable XLR o de 6,35 mm (1/4 pulg.) estándar (no incluido) para
    conectar a esta entrada un micrófono dinámico estándar. Utilice la perilla Mic 1 Level (Nivel del
    micrófono 1) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel de volumen.
26. Mic 1/2 Level: Gire estas perillas para ajustar los niveles de volumen de las correspondientes entradas
    de micrófonos. El indicador luminoso junto a cada perilla indica el nivel actual de la señal según su
    color: verde (normal/óptimo), naranja (nivel intermedio) o rojo (máximo-pico).
27. Mic On/Off: Pues estos botones para activar o desactivar el micrófono correspondiente.
28. Talk Over: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar la característica “hablar sobre la mezcla”, la cual
    reduce automáticamente el nivel de volumen de la mezcla maestra cuando se utiliza el micrófono.
    Puede usar el menú Utilidades para ajustar la medida en la que el nivel de volumen de la mezcla
    maestra disminuye y que tan rápido regresa a su nivel normal (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú
    Utilidades > Microphone).
29. Ecualizador del micrófono (High, Low): Gire estas perillas para aumentar o disminuir las frecuencias
    altas y bajas de ambos micrófonos.
30. Salidas para auriculares: Conecte los auriculares a estos conectores de 6,35 mm (1/4 pulg.) o 3,5 mm
    (1/8 pulg.) para monitorizar la señal. Gire la perilla volumen maestro para ajustar el volumen.
31. Nivel de auriculares: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de los auriculares.
32. Split Cue: Cuando este interruptor está en posición On (Activado), se “divide” el audio de los
    auriculares de modo que todos los canales enviados al canal de cue se suma a mono y se envía al
    canal del auricular izquierdo y la mezcla maestra se suma a mono y se envía al canal derecho. Cuando
    el interruptor está en posición Off (Desactivado), el canal de cue y la mezcla maestra se “combinan”.
33. Cue Mix: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el balance entre la salida de cue y la salida de la mezcla maestra
    en los auriculares.
34. Pantallas: Estas pantallas brindan retroalimentación instantánea sobre los parámetros de los efectos,
    el tempo y más. Las pantallas también muestran el menú de utilidades, en donde podrá configurar los
    ajustes del hardware y modificar el comportamiento de las características para que se ajusten a su flujo
    de trabajo preferido ajustando el encaminamiento de las señales de audio, el orden de los módulos de
    efectos, los niveles de entrada y salida, y más.
35. BPM FX On/Off: Pulse este botón para encender o apagar los efectos del módulo de BPM.
36. FX Amount: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la cantidad de señal de salida que sale del módulo de efectos
    de BPM.
37. Instant: Pues este botón para activar o desactivar el modo Instant FX para la tira táctil de efectos.
38. FX Channel Assign: Gire esta perilla para seleccionar el canal al cual el módulo de efectos de BPM
    aplicará sus efectos: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A o B (ambos lados del crossfader); Mic (ambas
    señales de micrófono); o Master (la mezcla maestra).
39. FX Select/Enter: Gire esta perilla para seleccionar un efecto. Estando en el menú Utilidades, gire esta
    perilla para seleccionar una opción y púlsela para confirmar su selección o para entrar a un sub-menú.
40. Back: Pulse este botón para regresar a la pantalla anterior del menú Utilidades.
41. FX Cue: Pulse este botón para monitorizar los efectos de BPM en el canal de cue de los auriculares.
    Sin embargo, no todos los efectos de BPM pueden monitorizarse.
42. FX Time/Parameter: Gire esta perilla para seleccionar la frecuencia que el módulo de efectos de BPM
    utilizará. Pulse la perilla para conmutar entre un ajuste de la frecuencia como división de tiempo y de la
    frecuencia en milisegundos. (Se encenderá la luz correspondiente a lo largo de la tira táctil de efectos
    para indicar la división de tiempo actual). Esta perilla también ajustará los parámetros de otros efectos
    cuando estén disponibles.
43. Tira táctil de efectos: Cuando el botón Instant esté en la posición off (desactivado), toque un área de
    esta tira táctil capacitiva para seleccionar la división de tiempo que utilizará el módulo de efectos de
    BPM. Se encenderá la luz correspondiente a lo largo de la tira para indicar la división de tiempo actual.
    Si la división de tiempo actual no es un valor de cuantificación exhibido en la tira (por ej., el efecto
    BeatBreak), entonces nos encenderá ninguna de las luces.
     Cuando el botón Instante este en la posición on (activado), toque y mantenga su dedo en la tira para
     activar los efectos y luego arrastre su dedo hacia arriba o hacia abajo para ajustar la división de tiempo
     del efecto."

22
44. Tap/-Auto: Toque este botón al menos 3 veces al tempo deseado para ajustar la velocidad del módulo
    de efectos de BPM para el canal definido por la perilla FX Channel Assign (la velocidad del módulo de
    los otros canales permanecerá inalterada). El botón Tap estará atenuado al usar un valor de BPM
    introducido manualmente de esta forma.
     Mantenga pulsado este botón durante 1 segundo para sincronizar la velocidad del módulo de efectos
     de BPM con la señal de audio del canal definido por la perilla FX Channel Assign (la velocidad del
     módulo de los otros canales permanecerá inalterada). El botón Tap se iluminará al máximo cuando esté
     utilizando BPM detectados automáticamente de esta manera, y se mostrará Auto junto a los BPM en la
     segunda pantalla. Si está utilizando un compatible reproductor de medios de Denon DJ con Engine
     Connect, el compatible reproductor de medios de Denon DJ controlará el módulo de efectos de BPM y
     se mostrará el logo de Engine en la segunda pantalla.
45. FX Frequency: Gire esta perilla para seleccionar una banda de frecuencia de la señal de audio a la cual
    se aplicarán los efectos de BPM. Seleccione la posición central (12:00) para aplicar efectos a la
    totalidad del espectro de frecuencias.
46. Quantize/-Utility: Pulse este botón para cuantificar los efectos de BPM a los reproductores de medios
    conectados a los puertos Link.
     Mantenga pulsado este botón para entrar o salir del menú de Utilidades, el cual aparecerá en la
     pantalla. Al salir del menú Utilidades también se guardan todos los cambios realizados.
47. MIDI Start/Stop: Pulse este botón para enviar un mensaje de MIDI Start o MIDI Stop por el puerto
    USB o la salida MIDI output (Puede usar el menú Utilidades para seleccionar uno). El tempo será el de
    la selección de la perilla FX Channel Assign. Si modifica la selección de la perilla FX Channel Assign,
    mantenga pulsado este botón para enviar el tempo nuevo.
48. Engine Connect: Cuando los puertos Link se conectan a compatibles reproductores de medios de
    Denon DJ, pulse este botón para permitir que el X1850 PRIME reciba información de sincronización y
    BPM (a fin de sincronizar los tempos de los efectos) y enviar datos de la pista y el perfil del usuario
    entre los reproductores de medios.
     Mantenga pulsado este botón para mostrar la asignación manual de canales en las pantallas de los
     reproductores de medios compatibles.
49. Puertos USB: Utilice cables USB estándar para conectar ordenadores a estos puertos USB.



Panel trasero


                              1                11
                       2                             10 10 10 10                      13
                                     8        9                               12
                                                   15
                             4                 7          14
                                     5 6            16            3 3 3 3 3
1.   Entrada de corriente: Utilice el cable de corriente con traba incluido para conectar esta entrada a una
     toma de corriente. Para retirar el cable de corriente, empuje la lengüeta amarilla hacia abajo y luego tire
     el cable para extraerlo de la entrada. También puede utilizar un cable de corriente IEC estándar en
     lugar del cable de corriente con traba incluido.
2.   Botón de encendido: Pulse este botón para encender o apagar el X1850 PRIME. Encienda el X1850 PRIME
     después de haber conectado todos sus dispositivos de entrada y antes de encender sus amplificadores y
     altavoces. Apague sus amplificadores y altavoces antes de apagar el X1850 PRIME.
3.   Puertos Link: Use cables de red estándar para conectar estos puertos a sus compatibles
     reproductores de medios de Denon DJ y/o su ordenador. Cada reproductor de medios puede usar
     estas conexiones para compartir información de sincronización y BPM con el X1850 PRIME (a fin de
     sincronizar los tempos de los efectos) así como también los datos de la pista y del perfil del usuario
     con otros reproductores de medios.
4.   Salidas maestras (XLR balanceadas): Utilice cables XLR estéreo para conectar estas salidas a un
     sistema de altavoces o amplificador. Utilice la perilla Master (Maestro) ubicada en el panel superior
     para controlar el nivel de volumen.

                                                                                                             23
5.   Salidas maestras (RCA no balanceadas): Utilice cables RCA estéreo para conectar estas salidas a un
     sistema de altavoces o amplificador. Utilice la perilla Master (Maestro) ubicada en el panel superior
     para controlar el nivel de volumen.
6.   Salidas de grabación (RCA): Utilice cables RCA estándar para conectar estas salidas a una interfaz de
     grabación, mezclador externo u otro dispositivo. Use el menú Utilidades para seleccionar si la mezcla
     enviada a estas salidas incluirá o no la señal de audio de los micrófonos (consulte Funcionamiento >
     Menú Utilidades > Microphone).
7.   Salida de cabina (6,35 mm/1/4 pulg., TRS): Utilice cables RCA estándar de 6,35 mm/1/4 pulg. para
     conectar estas salidas a un sistema de monitores de cabina o amplificador de cabina. Utilice la perilla
     Booth (Cabina) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel de volumen. Use el menú Utilidades
     para seleccionar si la mezcla enviada a estas salidas incluirá o no la señal de audio de los micrófonos
     (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú Utilidades > Microphone).
8.   Salida de envío (6,35 mm/1/4 pulg., TRS): Conecte estas salidas a las entradas de un módulo u otro
     dispositivo de efectos externos.
9.   Entradas de recepción (6,35 mm/1/4 pulg., TRS): Conecte estas entradas a las salidas de un módulo u
     otro dispositivo de efectos externos. Puede usar el menú Utilidades para ajustar el nivel de esta señal de
     audio (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú Utilidades > FX).
10. Entradas fonográficas/de línea (RCA): Utilice cables RCA estéreo estándar para conectar estas
    entradas de nivel de línea o de nivel fonográfico a una fuente de audio externa. Utilice los selectores
    de entrada en el panel superior para determinar si la señal proveniente de las entradas de nivel de línea
    o de nivel fonográfico se enviarán a cada canal.
11. Terminal de conexión a tierra: Si utiliza giradiscos de nivel fonográfico con cable de conexión a tierra,
    conecte dicho cable a este terminal. Si se experimenta un zumbido grave, puede significar que sus
    giradiscos no están conectados a tierra.
    Nota: Algunos giradiscos tienen el cable de conexión a tierra incorporado a la conexión RCA y, por lo
    tanto, no es necesario conectar nada al terminal de tierra.
12. Entrada de micrófono 2 (6,35 mm/1/4 pulg., TRS): Utilice un cable de 6,35 mm (1/4 pulg.) estándar (no
    incluido) para conectar a esta entrada un micrófono dinámico estándar. Utilice la perilla Mic 2 Level
    (Nivel del micrófono 1) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel de volumen.
13. Salida MIDI: (DIN de 5 patillas): Use un cable MIDI estándar de para conectar esta salida a la entrada
    MIDI de un dispositivo MIDI externo. Puede usar el botón MIDI Send para enviar mensajes MIDI Start
    desde esta salida. También puede usar el menú Utilidades para activar o desactivar esta conexión
    (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú Utilidades > System).
14. Digital In (RCA digital): Utilice cables RCA digitales para conectar estas entradas de 24 bits/96 kHz a
    las salidas digitales de sus compatibles reproductores de medios de Denon DJ.
15. Digital Link In (RCA digital): Si está usando más de una unidad X1850 PRIME, utilice un cable RCA
    digital para conectar esta entrada a la salida digital de otro X1850 PRIME.
16. Digital Out (RCA digital): Utilice un cable RCA digital para conectar esta salida a la entrada digital de
    otra unidad X1850 PRIME o a una interfaz externa, mezclador u otro dispositivo. Use el menú
    Utilidades para ajustar el nivel de la señal saliente (consulte Funcionamiento > Menú Utilidades >
    Advanced Audio).




24
Funcionamiento

Efectos

Módulo de efectos de BPM

Este módulo de efectos integrados le permite aplicar cualquiera de los diversos efectos a canales
específicos en base a su tempo actual.

Para activar o desactivar el módulo de efectos de BPM, pulse BPM FX On/Off.

Para seleccionar el canal al cual el módulo de efectos de BPM aplicará sus efectos, gire la perilla FX
  Channel Assign. Las opciones son: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A o B (ambos lados del crossfader);
  Mic (ambas señales de micrófono); o Master (la mezcla maestra).
Para aplicar o eliminar el efecto desde o hacia el canal de cue, pulse FX Cue. Cuando el botón se
  encienda, solamente se aplicarán efectos al canal de cue de los auriculares.

Para seleccionar un efecto, gire la perilla FX Select/Enter.
Estos son los efectos disponibles:
 • Echo: Este efecto agrega ecos de la señal original. Utilice la perilla FX Parameter para ajustar el nivel
     de retroalimentación del efecto de eco.
 • Delay: Este afecto añade instancias repetidas de la señal original las cuales decaen a lo largo del
     tiempo.
 • Hall Echo: Este efecto añade una combinación de reverberación y eco. Utilice la perilla FX
     Parameter para ajustar el nivel de decaimiento del efecto de eco
 • Ping Pong: Este es un efecto de delay estéreo en el que la frecuencia del delay difiere entre los
     canales izquierdo y derecho.
 • Auto Gate: Este efecto recorta la señal original a un ritmo constante.
 • Flanger: Este efecto añade una copia de la señal original con un leve delay para crear un efecto de
     filtro de peine (a menudo se lo conoce por su similitud con la turbina de un avión).
 • Filter: Este efecto varía la frecuencia de corte del filtro a un ritmo constante.
 • Phaser: Este efecto añade una copia de la señal original con su fase desplazada levemente para crear
     un sutil efecto de modulación.
 • Bit Crush: Este efecto añade un filtro de baja tasa de bits. Utilice la perilla FX Parameter para ajustar
     el promedio de bits y la profundidad de bits para modificar el sonido del efecto.
 • Reverb: Este efecto le agrega reverberación a la señal original. La cantidad de delay depende del tempo.
     Utilice la perilla FX Parameter para ajustar el decaimiento de la reverberación y pulse dicha perilla
     mientras la reverberación está activa para "congelar" la reverberación y cortar el canal de audio.
 • Roll: Este efecto toma muestras de la señal de audio actual y las repite a un ritmo constante en base
     a la división de tiempo actual.
 • RevRoll (redoble invertido): Este efecto toma muestras de la señal de audio actual y las repite a la
     inversa a un ritmo constante en base a la división de tiempo actual.
 • BeatBreak: Este efecto toma muestras de los cuatro beats de cada barra de la señal original y las
     reproduce (dentro de la misma barra) siguiendo un patrón predeterminado, creando un efecto de
     “tartamudeo” o “breakbeat”.
     Para seleccionar el patrón a utilizar, gire la perilla FX Time para seleccionar Pattern 0–15, tal como
       se muestra en la segunda pantalla. Los 16 bloques ( █ ) y/o líneas ( __ ) bajo ellos indican el ritmo
       del patrón actual de forma similar al secuenciador de pasos de una caja de ritmos: un bloque
       representa un “golpe”/”nota” y una línea representa un silencio.
     Ejemplos:
                                                          indica un golpe en cada beat.
                                                          indica un golpe en cada corchea.
                                                          indica un golpe en cada semi-corchea (en cada
                                                          nota del patrón).
     Use el menú Utilidades para editar los patrones (consulte Menú Utilidades > FX).


                                                                                                         25
 •   Scratch: Este efecto alterna entre la reproducción normal e invertida de cada beat, creando un efecto
     de rayado de vinilo.
 •   Pumper: Este efecto atenúa u "oculta" el audio en los beats descendentes, de forma similar a un
     compresor de entrada lateral o "sidechain". Los parámetros disponibles son:
       o Duck: Ajusta la atenuación del volumen: -2 dB a -20 dB.
       o Offset: Ajusta el desfasaje de tiempo para la atenuación en beats: -1/16, -1/8, -1/4 o -1/2.
 •   Echo Hold: Este efecto aplica un eco el cual, cuando se gira la perilla FX Amount en sentido horario
     más allá del punto central, mantiene las repeticiones en el último eco. Gire la perilla FX Amount en
     sentido contrario (antihorario) más allá del punto central para eliminar el eco mantenido.
 •   SendRtn (envío/regreso): Esta opción habilitará las salidas de envío y las entradas de recepción,
     permitiéndole utilizar efectos externos sobre la señal.

Todos los efectos de BPM se basan en el tiempo, de manera que el módulo de efectos de BPM brinda
diversas maneras para que pueda introducir o detectar el tempo que utilizará.
      Para ajustar la división de tiempo del módulo de efectos de BPM, realice una de las siguientes acciones:
            • Asegúrese de que la división de tiempo (__ Beat) esté seleccionada en la pantalla inferior (si
                no lo está, pulse la perilla FX Time) y luego gire la perilla FX Time para seleccionar otra
                división de tiempo.
            • Cuando el botón Instant esté apagado, toque un área de la tira táctil de efectos para
                seleccionar otra división de tiempo. Se encenderá la luz correspondiente a lo largo de la tira
                para indicar la división de tiempo actual.
      Para ajustar el ritmo del módulo de efectos de BPM en milisegundos, asegúrese de que esté
        seleccionada la frecuencia en milisegundos (__ ms) esté seleccionada en la pantalla inferior (si no lo
        está, pulse la perilla FX Time y luego gire la perilla FX Time para ajustarla.

Para introducir un tempo nuevo, pulse Tap al menos 3 veces al tempo deseado. Esto ajustará la
  velocidad del módulo de efectos de BPM para el canal definido por la perilla FX Channel Assign (la
  velocidad del módulo de los otros canales permanecerá inalterada). El botón Tap estará atenuado al
  usar un valor de BPM introducido manualmente de esta forma.
Para detectar el tempo automáticamente, mantenga pulsado Tap/-Auto durante 1 segundo. Esto
  sincronizará la velocidad del módulo de efectos de BPM con la señal de audio del canal definido por la
  perilla FX Channel Assign (la velocidad del módulo de los otros canales permanecerá inalterada). El
  botón Tap se iluminará al máximo cuando esté utilizando BPM detectados automáticamente de esta
  manera, y se mostrará Auto junto a los BPM en la segunda pantalla.
  Nota: Si está utilizando un compatible reproductor de medios de Denon DJ con Engine Connect, el
  reproductor de medios controlará el módulo de efectos de BPM y se mostrará el logo de Engine en la
  segunda pantalla.
Para ajustar el tempo manualmente, mantenga pulsado Tap/-Auto y gire la perilla FX Time para ajustar
  los BPM en incrementos de 1. Mientras mantiene pulsado Tap/-Auto pulse y gire la perilla FX Time para
  ajustar los BPM en incrementos de 0,1.
Para activar la cuantificación de efectos, utilice el ajuste FX Quantize en el menú Utility (Utilidades) >
  FX. Una vez activado, el efecto de BPM se activará a partir de un beat o incremento de beat utilizando la
  cuadrícula de beats de un reproductor de medios compatible.

Puede modificar fácilmente la cantidad de señal del efecto para ajustar el balance entre la señal "con
efecto" (la señal de salida del efecto de BPM) y la señal "sin efecto" (el audio sin los efectos aplicados).
     Para ajustar el balance entre las señales “con” y “sin” efectos, gire la perilla FX Amount. Como
       alternativa, utilice la tira táctil de efectos estando en Instant FX (consulte a continuación).

Normalmente usted aplicaría los efectos a la totalidad del espectro de frecuencias, pero el X1850 PRIME
también le permite aplicarlos a una banda de frecuencia aislada de la señal de audio (del canal seleccionado).
     Para seleccionar la banda de frecuencia, gire la perilla FX Frequency. Seleccione la posición
       central (12:00) para aplicar efectos a la totalidad del espectro de frecuencias.

El modo Instant FX le permite usar la tira táctil de efectos para activar el efecto y ajustar su división de
tiempo simultáneamente.
     Para activar o desactivar el modo Instant FX, pulse Instant. El botón se iluminará cuando se
       encuentre activado.
     Para activar el efecto, toque y mantenga su dedo en la tira táctil de efectos y luego arrastre su
       dedo hacia arriba o hacia abajo para ajustar la división de tiempo del efecto.

26
Sweep FX
Sweep FX le permite aplicar uno de cuatro efectos a los cuatro canales y “barrerlos” usando las perillas
Sweep FX. Sólo puede aplicar un efecto de barrido por vez.

Para activar un efecto de barrido, toque uno de los botones Sweep FX: Dub Echo, Noise, Wash Out o Gate.
  El botón se iluminará cuando se encuentre activado. Sólo se puede activar uno de estos botones a la vez.
Para desactivar un efecto de barrido, toque el botón Sweep FX encendido. Como alternativa, pulse un
  botón Sweep FX diferente para activarlo, lo cual desactivará al anterior.

Para todos los efectos de barrido, la posición central ("12 en punto") de la perilla Sweep FX omite el efecto.
Al girar la perilla Sweep FX en sentido horario o antihorario desde esta posición se aplica el efecto y se
pueden producir resultados diferentes en cada dirección en función del tipo de efecto. Los efectos de
barrido disponibles y sus funciones son las siguientes:
 •   Dub Echo: Este efecto añade un breve eco. Gire una perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para
     disminuir la longitud del delay (retardo) y aumentar la retroalimentación o gírela en sentido horario
     para aumentar la longitud del delay así como también la retroalimentación.
 •   Noise: Este efecto le agrega ruido a la señal. Comenzando desde la posición central (12 en punto),
     gire una perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para agregar ruido blanco con un efecto de
     compuerta basado en el tiempo sincronizado con el tempo del canal o gírela en sentido horario para
     agregar ruido blanco.
 •   Wash Out: Este botón crea un efecto de transición. Gire una perilla Sweep FX a su posición más
     antihoraria (mínimo) para aplicar un eco de 1/2 beat que también silenciara la señal de audio normal del
     canal o gírela a su posición más horaria (máxima) para aplicar un eco de 1 beat.
 •   Gate: Este efecto aplica un efecto de compuerta basada en el tiempo a la señal. Partiendo de la
     posición central (12:00), gire una perilla Sweep FX en sentido antihorario para aplicar un efecto de
     compuerta sincronizado con el tempo del canal o gírela en sentido horario para aplicar el mismo
     efecto, pero atenuando la señal. Cuanto más se gire la perilla en sentido horario, mayor será la
     atenuación.


Menú Utilidades
El menú Utilidades le permite personalizar varios ajustes del X1850 PRIME que afectan al enrutamiento de la
señal de audio, el módulo de efectos, los niveles de entrada y salida y más.

Para entrar o salir del menú Utilidades, mantenga pulsado Quantize/-Utility. Al salir del menú Utilidades
  también se guardan todos los cambios realizados.

Dentro del menú Utilidades, es posible hacer lo siguiente:
 •   Para seleccionar una opción, gire la perilla FX Select/Enter.
 •   Para confirmar su selección o entrar a un submenú, pulse la perilla FX Select/Enter.
 •   Para volver a la pantalla anterior, pulse Back.

A continuación se encuentran las descripciones de los diferentes submenús del menú Utilidades:

EQ
Estos ajustes determinan la manera en que funcionan las perillas de los ecualizadores de canal.
 •   Type: Seleccione ISO para ajustar los rangos de las perillas de los ecualizadores de canal de -∞ a
     +6dB/+10dB (según los rótulos). Seleccione EQ para ajustar los rangos de las perillas de los
     ecualizadores de canal de -24dB a +6dB (para otros reproductores que pudieran necesitar este ajuste).
 •   High Cross Over: La frecuencia de crossover entre las perillas High y Mid (agudos y medios) del
     ecualizador cuando Type se ajusta a ISO: 1000Hz–8000Hz (en incrementos que varían).
 •   Low Cross Over: La frecuencia de crossover entre las perillas Mid y Low (medios y graves) del
     ecualizador cuando Type se ajusta a ISO: 100Hz–800Hz (en incrementos que varían).
 •   Reset EQ Default: Seleccione OK para regresar los ajustes de este ecualizador de canal a sus
     valores predeterminados o seleccione Cancel para regresar al menú anterior.


                                                                                                           27
Filter
 •   Resonance: La resonancia de los filtros en los Canales 1-4 (es decir, qué tanto se les permite atravesar
     el filtro a las frecuencias que se encuentran apenas por afuera de la frecuencia de corte). 0 es un ajuste
     plano (las frecuencias que se encuentran apenas por afuera de la frecuencia de corte no se
     escucharán), mientras 15 brinda una resonancia elevada (la frecuencia de corte no es tan “estricta”, por
     lo que se escucharán algunas frecuencias adyacentes).
 •   Extreme Type: Este ajuste determina el efecto de los filtros de barrido en los extremos máximos y
     mínimos. Seleccione Kill para que los extremos del filtro finalicen el silencio o Bleed para permitir que
     los extremos del filtro se reproduzcan.


Headphones
 •   Attenuation: El nivel de ganancia de la salida de los auriculares. -10dB a +10dB.
 •   Split Cue Output: Este ajuste determina el lado de la señal estéreo que reproduce el programa de
     Cue en los auriculares, Left o Right.


Microphone
Estos ajustes afectan a los micrófonos.
 •   Attenuation: El nivel de ganancia de las entradas de micrófono. -15dB a 0dB.
 •   Gate Threshold: Este ajuste modifica la cantidad de audio requerida para activar la señal del
     micrófono. Los diferentes tipos de micrófono pueden requerir diferentes ajustes para obtener el mejor
     resultado: -40 dB a -79 dB.
 •   Talk Over Level: Este ajuste determina qué tanto disminuye el nivel de volumen de la mezcla maestra
     cuando se activa la característica de “hablar sobre la mezcla” del micrófono: de -40dB a -20dB.
 •   Talk Over Resume: Cuando se utiliza la característica de “hablar sobre la mezcla”, el volumen de la
     mezcla maestra regresará a su nivel normal una vez que la entrada del micrófono no detecté ninguna
     señal entrante. Este ajuste determina si la transición ocurre de forma moderada (Normal) o rápida (Fast).
 •   EQ High: La banda de frecuencias que se verá afectada por la perilla High del ecualizador del
     micrófono: 1,000Hz–10,000Hz (en incrementos que varían).
 •   EQ Low: La banda de frecuencias que se verá afectada por la perilla Low del ecualizador del
     micrófono: 100Hz–900Hz (en incrementos que varían).
 •   Booth Receive: Seleccione On para permitir que la señal del micrófono se envíe a ambas salidas de
     la cabina. Seleccione Off para eliminar la señal del micrófono de las salidas de la cabina.
 •   Headphone Receive: Seleccione On para permitir que la señal del micrófono se envíe a los
     auriculares. Seleccione Off para eliminar la señal del micrófono de los auriculares.
 •   Reset Mic Default: Seleccione OK para regresar los ajustes del micrófono a sus valores
     predeterminados o seleccione Cancel para regresar al menú anterior.

FX
Estos ajustes afectan a los efectos del X1850 PRIME.
 •   FX Return: Este es el nivel de unidad para las salidas de envío y las entradas de recepción: -10dB–
     +10dB. Es posible que tenga que modificar este ajuste en base a los tipos de efectos externos que
     esté utilizando.
 •   Beat Break Edit: Este menú le permite seleccionar, editar y almacenar patrones para el efecto
     BeatBreak. Consulte Efectos > Módulo de efectos de BPM para obtener más información sobre el
     funcionamiento de este efecto.
     Como editar un patrón:
     1. Gire la perilla FX Select/Enter para seleccionar un patrón (1–16) y luego púlsela.
     2. Gire la perilla FX Select/Enter para seleccionar una de las 12 semicorcheas del patrón. No es
         posible editar los cuatro beats principales del patrón; siempre sonarán ya que contienen el audio
         que se está muestreando.
         Pulse la perilla FX Select/Enter para modificar el beat de un “golpe”/”nota”( █ ) a un silencio ( __ )
         o viceversa.
         Repita este paso si lo desea.
     3. Pulse Back para volver a la pantalla anterior.


28
 •   FX List Customize: Utilice esta pantalla para personalizar el orden de los efectos. Gire la perilla FX
     Select/Enter para seleccionar un efecto de la lista de efectos disponibles del lado izquierdo y luego
     pulse esta perilla para añadir al efecto al nuevo orden del lado derecho. Repita este paso para cada
     efecto o seleccione -Cancel- para regresar a la pantalla anterior. Una vez que haya realizado esto
     para todos los efectos, seleccione -End- para guardar su lista personalizada.
 •   BPM FX On Color: Este ajuste determina el color del botón BPM FX On/Off cuando parpadea: red,
     spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange o purple.
 •   Noise Level: Este ajuste determina el nivel de ruido cuando se utiliza el efecto de barrido de ruido:
     -20 dB a +15 dB.
 •   FX Quantize: Este ajuste determina la cantidad de tiempo que el efecto esperará antes de aplicarse
     una vez activado el botón BPM FX: 1, 1/2, 1/4 o 1/8 de beat. Esto mantendrá al efecto sincronizado
     con la cuadrícula de beats de los reproductores de medios conectados.
 •   FX Limiter: Active este ajuste configurándolo en On a fin de limitar el volumen de la salida de efectos
     para que sea igual a la entrada del canal. Seleccione Off para no aplicar un limitador a los efectos.



Advanced Audio
Estos ajustes determinan el funcionamiento digital del mezclador y otras funciones avanzadas.
 •   Sampling Rate: La tasa de muestreo de la señal de audio USB: 44.1kHz, 48kHz o 96kHz.
 •   Master Out Level: Un desplazamiento respecto del nivel de volumen de las salidas maestras: -15dB a 0dB.
 •   Master Limiter: Este ajuste aplica un limitador a la salida maestra: 20 dB a 0 dB. Seleccione Off para
     no aplicar un limitador a la salida maestra.
 •   Booth Settings: Estos ajustes determinan el encaminamiento del audio de la cabina:
      o Booth Pan: Esto permite que el balance (panning) del audio de la cabina se distribuya junto con
         el audio maestro: Enable o Disable.
      o Booth Out Level: Un desplazamiento respecto del nivel de volumen de las salidas de la cabina:
         0dB a -15dB.
 •   USB Audio: Estos ajustes determinan el enrutamiento y los niveles del audio USB.
      o CH1–4/Master/Cue Assign: Estos ajustes determinan los canales de audio USB (1/2–9/10) que
         recibirán la señal de audio proveniente de los Canales 1–4 (CH1–CH4), y la mezcla maestra
         (Master).
      o Output Level: Este ajuste es un desplazamiento respecto del nivel de volumen de la mezcla
         maestra enviada hacia su ordenador a través de una conexión USB: -20dB a +20dB.
      o Ch Input Level: Este ajuste es un desplazamiento respecto de las señales de audio enviadas a
         los Canales 1–4 desde su ordenador a través de una conexión USB: -20dB a +20dB.
      o Modo de transmisión en vivo (Broadcast): Cuando se activa (On), esta opción le permite
         enviar la señal maestra a su ordenador a través de los canales de audio USB 1-2 para utilizarlas
         con software de transmisión en vivo (broadcast). Desactívelo (Off) para deshabilitar el modo de
         transmisión en vivo.
         Nota: Cuando el modo de transmisión en vivo está habilitado, aparecerá un mensaje indicando
         que se deshabilitará DVS en el canal 1. Pulse Enter para continuar.
 •   DVS Setup: Para los Canales 1–4 (CH1–CH4), seleccione el nivel de entrada que utilizará cada uno de
     ellos cuando su selector de entrada se ajuste a DVS. Seleccione Phono para utilizar discos de vinilo de
     control o Line para utilizar CD de control.
 •   Digital Settings:
      o Digital Out: Este ajuste es un desplazamiento respecto del nivel de volumen de la señal de
           audio enviada desde la salida digital: -20dB a +20dB.
      o Digital Link: Seleccione On para sumar a la señal saliente antes de la perilla Master y la perilla
           Booth, las cuales puede utilizar para controlar su nivel de salida. Seleccione Off para sumar a la
           señal saliente después de la perilla Master y la perilla Booth, las cuales no afectarán su nivel de
           salida.
      o Link Level: Este ajuste es un desplazamiento respecto del nivel de volumen de la señal de audio
           enviada a la entrada Digital Link (enlace digital): -20dB a +20dB.
 •   Cross Fader Cut: Estos ajustes determinan qué tanto debe mover el crossfader desde cada lado
     (Fader Cut A o B) para que empiece a afectar a la señal de audio: -2.0mm a 1.0mm

                                                                                                           29
System
Estos ajustes determinan el funcionamiento general.
 •   Info: Estas pantallas contienen información sobre la versión actual del firmware y sobre la red.
      o    Version: Indica la versión actual del firmware del X1850 PRIME.
      o    IP Address: Es la dirección IP que está utilizando el X1850 PRIME.
      o    MAC Address: Es la dirección MAC que está utilizando el X1850 PRIME.
 •   Display:
       o   Display Brightness: Este ajuste determina el brillo de la pantalla de OLED: Low, Med o High.
       o   LED Brightness: Este ajuste determina el brillo de todos los LED de la superficie de control:
           Low, Med o High.
 •   Engine Connect: Seleccione Auto para permitir que el X1850 PRIME reciba de forma automática
     información de sincronización y BPM (a fin de sincronizar los tiempos de los efectos) desde las
     reproductoras de medios conectadas a sus puertos Link y para enviar datos de la pista y el perfil del
     usuario entre ellas. El X1850 PRIME también detectará y configurará de forma automática cada
     reproductor de medios una vez que conecte sus puertos Link. Seleccione Manual para desactivar el
     enlace automático y sólo activar esta característica de forma manual manteniendo pulsado el botón
     Engine Connect hasta que aparezca la pantalla Channel Assignment en las reproductoras de medios.
     Entonces podrá asignar libremente cada capa de reproductor de medios a un canal específico.
 •   Cue Settings:
      o    Cue Solo Mode: Seleccione On para usar los botones Channel Cue como botones de “solo” (al
           pulsar uno se silenciarán todos los demás canales). Seleccione Off para usarlos como botones
           de cue normales (al pulsar uno se enviará su señal al canal de cue).
      o    Cue 1–4 Color: Este ajuste determina el color de los botones Cue de cada canal: red, spring
           green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange o purple.
      o    Reset Cue Defaults: Seleccione OK para regresar los ajustes de cue a sus valores
           predeterminados o seleccione Cancel para regresar al menú anterior.
 •   Contour Lock: Cuando se ajusta a On, este ajuste bloquea el Crossfader Contour a la posición
     actual de la perilla para que no cambie si cambia la posición de la perilla. Ajústela a Off para
     desactivar el bloqueo.
 •   Through Position Lock: Cuando se ajusta a On, este ajuste bloquea los interruptores de Crossfader
     Assign a la posición Thru para que no cambie si se modifica el interruptor. Ajústela a Off para
     desactivar el bloqueo.
 •   Network Settings:
      o    Refresh IP Address: Seleccione OK para renovar su dirección IP, lo cual reestablece la
           conexión entre su X1850 PRIME y cualesquiera otras compatibles reproductoras de medios
           conectada a los puertos Link. Seleccione Cancel para regresar a la pantalla anterior.
 •   MIDI: Estos son los ajustes de MIDI que determinan como se utilizan las conexiones MIDI.
      o    Clock Send: Estos ajustes determinan si el X1850 PRIME enviará mensajes de MIDI Clock a
           través de cada una de estas conexiones. Para cada opción, seleccione On para activar la
           transmisión u Off para desactivarla.
               USB: Esto aplica a ambos puertos USB 1 y 2. Si está utilizando el X1850 PRIME para
                controlar software, ajústelo a On.
               5pin: Esto aplica a la salida MIDI.
      o    Active Send: Estos ajustes determinan si el X1850 PRIME enviará mensajes de MIDI normales a
           través de cada una de estas conexiones. Para cada opción, seleccione On para activar la
           transmisión u Off para desactivarla.
               USB: Esto aplica a ambos puertos USB 1 y 2. Si está utilizando el X1850 PRIME para
                controlar software, ajústelo a On.
               5pin: Esto aplica a la salida MIDI.
 •   Factory Reset: Seleccione OK para regresar al X1850 PRIME a sus valores predeterminados de
     fábrica (espere unos segundos después de seleccionar esta opción antes de reanudar la operación
     normal). Seleccione Cancel para regresar a la pantalla anterior.




30
Guide d’utilisation (Français)
Présentation
Merci d’avoir fait l’acquisition du X1850 PRIME. Chez Denon DJ, nous savons à quel point la musique est
importante pour vous. C’est pourquoi nous concevons nos produits avec une seule chose en tête — faire
de votre performance la meilleure qui soit. Nous sommes honorés et enthousiastes de pouvoir jouer un rôle
dans votre parcours de création musicale dans l’univers du DJing.

Caractéristiques :
 •   Console de mixage numérique à 4 canaux avec 4 canaux phono/ligne commutables
 •   Section d’effets BPM avec isolation des bandes des fréquences
 •   Doubles connexions audio USB pour logiciels et périphériques audio
 •   Boutons de balayage et d’effets BPM dédiés — effets de haute qualité pour chaque canal avec une
     simple rotation de bouton
 •   Boutons Sweep FX et BPM FX dédiés, des effets de haute qualité, incluant les nouveaux effets
     Pumper et Echo Hold, pouvant être ajoutés à chaque canal avec une simple rotation du bouton
 •   Quantification des effets pour l'activation des effets
 •   Égalisation expressive, choisir entre les modes Classic ou Isolation et une commande de résonance
     du filtre réglable
 •   Protocole Engine Connect pour verrouiller des effets sur la grille de battement
 •   Crossfader expressif Flex-Fader de Denon DJ
 •   Connecter des effets et des instruments MIDI
 •   Sortie numérique 24 bits/96 kHz pour une qualité audio sans compromis
 •   Écran OLED pour des réglages précis à partir de menus
 •   4 entrées numériques pour un mixage audio à haute résolution
 •   Concentrateur réseau pour jusqu’à quatre lecteurs ou accessoires
 •   Construction robuste en métal
 •   Connecteur d’alimentation CEI verrouillable

Contenu de la boîte
X1850 PRIME                       Guide d’utilisation
Câble USB                         Consignes de sécurité et informations concernant la garantie
Câble d’alimentation

Assistance
Pour les toutes dernières informations concernant la documentation, les spécifications techniques, la
configuration requise, et la compatibilité, veuillez visiter denondj.com.
Pour de l’assistance supplémentaire, veuillez visiter denondj.com/support.

Enregistrement du produit
L’achat du produit peut inclure de logiciels exclusifs et/ou des promotions accessibles uniquement par
l’enregistrement de votre produit sur le site Web de Denon DJ.

Pour vérifier votre admissibilité et accéder au contenu disponible, veuillez enregistrer votre produit en
suivant les instructions ci-dessous :
1.   Visitez denondj.com.
2.   Cliquez sur Sign In pour accéder à votre compte existant ou pour créer un nouveau compte.
3.   Une fois connecté, cliquez sur My Registered Products.
4.   Entrez le numéro de série du produit dans la case et cliquez sur Register Product.
5.   Une fois l'enregistrement réussi, tous les téléchargements de logiciels, contenus exclusifs et offres
     promotionnelles applicables figureront sur votre compte.

                                                                                                       31
Installation
1.   Veillez à ce que tous les appareils soient hors tension et que tous les niveaux soient au réglage
     minimum.
2. Reliez les sorties audio de vos lecteurs multimédias aux entrées de la X1850 PRIME.
3. Si vous utilisez plusieurs lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ, reliez leurs ports Link aux
     ports Link de la X1850 PRIME selon l’un des schémas de connexion suivants.
4. Branchez tous les autres appareils (platines, casque d’écoute, amplificateurs de puissance, enceintes,
     etc.) aux entrées et sorties de la X1850 PRIME.
5. Branchez tous les appareils à l’alimentation secteur.
Lors de la mise en marche, commencez par allumer (1) les lecteurs multimédias et les autres sources
d’entrée, (2) la X1850 PRIME, puis (3) les appareils de sortie.
Lors de la mise hors tension, commencez par fermer (1) les appareils de sortie, (2) la X1850 PRIME, puis (3)
les lecteurs multimédias.

Schémas de connexion

Les articles qui ne figurent pas dans la section Présentation > Contenu de la boîte sont vendus
séparément.

Exemple 1

Lecteur multimédia                                                       Lecteur multimédia
  de Denon DJ                                                              de Denon DJ




     Alimentation secteur                                      Alimentation secteur



Exemple 2




                                Lecteurs                          Lecteurs
                              multimédias de                    multimédias de
                                Denon DJ                          Denon DJ
     Alimentation                                                                          Alimentation
        secteur                                                                               secteur




         Alimentation                                                                    Alimentation
            secteur                                                                         secteur




32
Réseau

Vous pouvez utiliser la X1850 PRIME afin de mettre en réseau plusieurs lecteurs multimédias compatible de
Denon DJ, leur permettant de partager des informations de minutage et de BPM avec la X1850 PRIME, ainsi
que des données de piste et d’utilisateur.
Cette fonctionnalité offre plusieurs avantages lors de prestations. Par exemple, si vous utilisez quatre
lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ, vous pouvez utiliser l’un d’eux pour parcourir toutes les
pistes sur tous les périphériques (lecteurs USB ou cartes SD) connectés à ces lecteurs multimédias. Vous
pouvez ensuite faire la lecture de l’une des pistes immédiatement sans avoir à déplacer le périphérique d’un
appareil à l’autre.

Pour mettre en réseau des lecteurs multimédia Denon DJ compatibles, veuillez utiliser les câbles de
réseau fournis afin de relier leurs ports Link aux ports Link (1–4) du panneau arrière de la X1850 PRIME.
Le témoin Network (Media Status) de chaque lecteur multimédia s’allume lorsque l’appareil est
correctement connecté à un réseau.

Par défaut, la X1850 PRIME détecte et configure automatiquement chaque lecteur multimédia Denon DJ
compatible branché à ses ports Link. Le port Link sur la X1850 PRIME déterminera les canaux utilisés par le
lecteur multimédia. Veuillez consulter les scénarios ci-dessous.
Vous pouvez également assigner librement chaque couche de lecteur multimédia à un canal spécifique en
modifiant le paramètre Engine Connect dans le menu Utility de la X1850 PRIME. Veuillez consulter le Guide
d’utilisation du lecteur multimédia afin d’en savoir plus.


    Port Link 1                                            Port Link 2




                         Layer Layer                                            Layer Layer
                           A     B                                                B     A




    Port Link 3                                            Port Link 4




                                       Layer Layer                                             Layer Layer
                                         A     B                                                 B     A




                                                                                                         33
Caractéristiques

Panneau supérieur


                                                                       23
                                  2        2        2        2
                       25         1        1        1        1        22         49
                       26              3        3        3        3 24      46 47 48
                             27
                       26              4        4        4        4
                             28 5          5        5        5        21 21      34
                       29              4        4        4        4

                       29              4        4        4        4         40 39 41
                        9
                                  8        8        8        8        20      38
                       11                                                   42
                                  10       10       10       10       19              43
                       32         7        7        7        7        18
                                                                            44
                                  12       12       12       12
                       33                                             17
                                                                            45
                       31
                                       6        6        6        6 16
                                                                            37
                       30         13       13       13       13
                       30                           14                      35        36
                                      15                      15

1.   Input Select : Ces boutons permettent de sélectionner la source audio pour chaque canal :
      • Digital : Lorsque cette option est sélectionnée, la source audio est les entrées numériques.
      • Line : Lorsque cette option est sélectionnée, la source audio est les entrées à niveau ligne.
      • Phono : Lorsque cette option est sélectionnée, la source audio est les entrées phono.
      • USB : Lorsque cette option est sélectionnée, la source audio est un ordinateur branché à un port
        USB.
      • DVS : Lorsque cette option est sélectionnée, la source audio est un ordinateur branché à un port
        USB et utilisant la commande vinyle avec un système vinyle numérique.
2.   USB 1/2 : Lorsque le bouton Input Select est réglé sur USB, ces sélecteurs permet de sélectionner le
     port USB 1 ou le port USB 2 comme source. Lorsqu’un ordinateur est branché à ce port, le canal
     commande le canal correspondant dans le logiciel.
3.   Level : Ces boutons permettent d’ajuster le niveau pré-atténuation et pré-égalisation du signal audio de
     chaque canal.
4.   Égalisation (High, Mid et Low) : Ces boutons permettent d’augmenter ou de couper les hautes,
     moyennes et basses fréquences de chaque canal. Vous pouvez utiliser le menu Utility pour définir le
     type d’égalisation afin de déterminer les valeurs minimales (couper) et maximales (augmenter) (veuillez
     consulter la section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > EQ).
5.   Vumètres des canaux : Ces DEL indiquent le niveau pré-atténuation du signal audio de chaque canal.
6.   Curseur du canal : Ces curseurs permettent de régler le volume de chaque canal.



34
7.   Cue : Ces touches permettent d’acheminer le signal pré-atténuation de chaque canal au canal de pré-
     écoute. Appuyer sur plus d’une de ces touches en même temps permet d’acheminer le signal de
     chaque canal au canal de pré-écoute simultanément.
8.   Bouton Filter : Ces boutons permettent de régler le filtre de chaque canal. Tourner le bouton dans le
     sens antihoraire permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-bas et tourner le bouton dans le sens horaire permet
     d’appliquer un filtre passe-haut.
9.   Touche Filter : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver les filtres (commandés par les boutons
     Filter) sur tous les canaux.
10. Bouton Sweep FX : Ces boutons permettent de régler l’équilibre entre le signal traité (signal de sortie
    de l’effet de balayage) et le signal non traité (signal sans effets de balayage). Sélectionnez la position
    centrale (12 h) pour un signal entièrement non traité.
11. Touches Sweep FX : Ces touches permettent d’activer et de désactiver un effet commandé par les
    boutons Sweep FX. Seulement une des touches peut être activée à la fois.
      •   Dub Echo : Cet effet permet d’ajouter un bref écho. Tourner un des boutons Sweep FX dans le
          sens antihoraire à partir de la position centrale (12 h) permet de diminuer la longueur du délai et
          d’augmenter la rétroaction, et tourner dans le sens horaire permet d’augmenter la longueur du
          délai ainsi que la rétroaction.
      •   Noise : Cet effet permet d’ajouter du bruit au signal. À partir de la position centrale (12 h), tourner
          un des boutons Sweep FX dans le sens horaire permet d’ajouter du bruit blanc, et tourner dans
          le sens antihoraire permet d’ajouter du bruit blanc avec un effet de gate synchronisé au tempo du
          canal.
      •   Wash Out : Ceci permet d’ajouter un effet de transition. Tourner un des boutons Sweep FX dans
          le sens antihoraire jusqu’à sa position minimum permet d’ajouter un effet d’un écho d’un demi-
          temps qui met en sourdine le signal audio normal du canal, et tourner dans le sens horaire jusqu’à
          sa position maximum permet d’appliquer un écho d’un temps.
      •   Gate : Cet effet permet d’ajouter au signal un effet de gate basé sur le temps. Tourner un des
          boutons Sweep FX dans le sens antihoraire à partir de la position centrale (12 h) permet d’ajouter
          un effet de gate synchronisé au tempo du canal, et tourner dans le sens horaire permet d’ajouter
          un effet de gate qui atténue le signal. Plus le bouton est tourné dans le sens horaire, plus
          l'atténuation est importante.
12. Indicateurs BPM FX : Ces témoins s’allument lorsqu’un canal est sélectionné et modifié par le module
    d’effets BPM (lorsque le bouton FX Channel Assign est réglé sur Channel 1, 2, 3 ou 4), X-Fader A ou
    B (si le canal est assigné au côté actif) ou Master (tous les canaux).
13. Affectation du crossfader : Ce commutateur permet d’acheminer l’audio du canal correspondant à
    l’un des côtés du crossfader — A (gauche) ou B (à droite) — ou de contourner le crossfader et
    d’acheminer l’audio directement au programme mix — Thru (centre).
14. Crossfader : Ce crossfader permet de mélanger les signaux des modules actifs.
15. Indicateurs du crossfader : Ces témoins s’allument lorsqu’un des côtés du crossfader est sélectionné
    et modifié par le module d’effets (lorsque le bouton FX Channel Assign est réglé sur X-Fader A ou B).
16. X Fader Contour : Ce bouton permet de régler l’intensité du fondu du crossfader. Tourner dans le
    sens antihoraire permet d’obtenir un fondu progressif (mixage) et tourner dans le sens horaire permet
    d’obtenir une coupure nette (scratch). La position centrale est typiquement utilisée dans les clubs.
17. Ch Fader Contour : Ce bouton permet de régler l'intensité du fondu des curseurs des canaux.
    Tourner le bouton dans le sens antihoraire permet d'augmenter le volume « plus tard » (plus près du
    haut du curseur). Tourner le bouton dans le sens horaire permet d'augmenter le volume « plus tôt »
    (presque immédiatement après avoir déplacé le curseur de sa position minimum). La position centrale
    est une augmentation linéaire du volume.
18. X Fader Start : Ce commutateur permet d’activer ou de désactiver la fonction de commande à
    distance du crossfader (crossfader start). Lorsqu’elle est activée, vous pouvez lancer automatiquement
    la lecture des lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ affectés à chaque côté du crossfader en
    déplaçant le crossfader vers ce côté.
19. Channel Fader Start : Ce commutateur permet d’activer ou de désactiver la fonction de commande à
    distance du curseur du canal (channel fader start). Lorsqu’elle est activée, vous pouvez lancer
    automatiquement la lecture des lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ affectés à chaque canal
    en déplaçant le curseur du canal vers le haut.
20. Booth : Ce bouton permet de régler le niveau du volume des sorties cabine.

                                                                                                              35
21. Vumètres de niveau principal : Ces DEL indiquent le niveau du signal audio du mix principal
    (acheminé aux sorties principales).
22. Master : Ce bouton permet de régler le niveau du volume des sorties principales.
23. Sélecteur stéréo/mono : Ce sélecteur permet de définir la configuration de canal des sorties
    principales : Stereo (signal audio binaural transmis de façon séparée aux canaux gauches et droits) ou
    Mono (signal audio monaural transmis de façon combinée aux canaux gauches et droits).
24. Pan : Ce bouton permet de régler la position du signal des sorties principales dans le champ stéréo.
25. Entrée Mic 1 : Cette entrée permet de brancher un microphone électrodynamique standard en utilisant
    un câble XLR ou 6,35 mm (non inclus). Le niveau du signal de cette entrée est commandé par le bouton
    Mic 1 Level du panneau supérieur.
26. Mic 1/2 Level : Ces boutons permettent d’ajuster le volume des entrées microphone correspondantes.
    Le témoin à côté de chaque bouton indique le niveau du signal par sa couleur : vert (normal/optimal),
    orange (moyen) ou rouge (maximum/crête).
27. Mic On/Off : Ces touches permettent d’activer et de désactiver le microphone correspondant.
28. Talk Over : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver la fonction « talkover », qui réduit
    automatiquement le niveau de volume du mix principal lorsque vous parlez dans le microphone. Vous
    pouvez utiliser le menu Utility pour définir la quantité d’atténuation apportée au signal et la rapidité avec
    laquelle il retourne à son niveau normal (veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility >
    Microphone).
29. Égalisation microphone (High, Low) : Ces boutons permettent d’augmenter ou de couper les hautes
    et basses fréquences des deux microphones.
30. Sorties casque d’écoute : Cette sortie permet de brancher un casque d’écoute 6,35 mm ou 3,5 mm
    afin de contrôler le signal. Le niveau de ces sorties est commandé par le bouton Headphone Level.
31. Headphone Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume des sorties casque.
32. Split Cue : Lorsque ce sélecteur est à On, l’audio du casque sera partagé afin que tous les canaux
    envoyés au canal cue soient combinés en mono et ajoutés au canal casque gauche et que le mix
    principal soit combiné en mono et ajouté au canal droit. Lorsque le sélecteur est à Off, l’audio du canal
    cue et du mix principal sont combinés.
33. Cue-Mix : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster l’équilibre entre les niveaux des signaux de pré-écoute et du mix
    principal transmis au casque d’écoute.
34. Écrans d’affichage : Ces écrans fournissent une rétroaction instantanée des paramètres d’effets, du
    tempo, etc. Les écrans affichent également le menu Utility, dans lequel vous pouvez configurer les
    paramètres matériels et modifier le comportement des fonctionnalités en fonction de votre flux de
    travail préféré, en ajustant le routage du signal audio, l’ordre des modules d’effets, les niveaux d’entrée
    et de sortie, etc.
35. BPM FX On/Off : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver le module d’effets BPM.
36. FX Amount : Tourner ce bouton permet de régler la quantité du signal de sortie du module d’effet
    BPM.
37. Instant : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver le mode Instant FX pour la barre tactile de
    effets.
38. FX Channel Assign : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner le canal auquel seront ajoutés les effets du
    module d’effets BPM. Channel 1, 2, 3 ou 4 ; X-Fader A ou B (un côté ou l’autre du crossfader) ; Mic
    (les deux signaux des microphones) ; ou Master (le mix principal).
39. FX Select/Enter : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner un effet à ajouter au signal. Alors que dans le
    menu Utility, ce bouton permet de sélectionner une option et l’enfoncer permet de confirmer la
    sélection ou d’accéder à un sous-menu.
40. Back : Lors de l’affichage du menu Utility, cette touche permet de revenir à la fenêtre précédente.
41. FX Cue : Cette touche permet de pré-écouter les effets ajoutés via le canal de pré-écoute. Cependant,
    certains des effets BPM ne peuvent être pré-écouter via le canal de pré-écoute.
42. FX Time/Parameter : Ce bouton permet de régler la fréquence de l’effet utilisée par le module d’effets
    BPM. Appuyer sur le bouton permet de basculer entre le réglage de l’effet selon une valeur en division
    temporelle et valeur en millisecondes. (Un témoin s’allume sur la barre tactile des effets afin d’indiquer
    la division temporelle actuelle.) Ce bouton permet également de régler d’autres paramètres d’effet
    lorsque disponible.


36
43. Barre tactile des effets : Lorsque la touche Instant est désactivée, taper sur cette barre tactile
    capacitive permet de sélectionner la division temporelle qui sera utilisée par le module d’effets BPM. Un
    témoin s’allume sur la barre tactile des effets afin d’indiquer la division temporelle actuelle. Si la division
    temporelle actuelle n’est pas une valeur de quantification indiquée sur la barre (p. ex., l’effet
    BeatBreak), alors aucune des lumières ne s’allume.
     Lorsque la touche Instant est activée, taper et maintenir un doigt sur la barre permet d’activer les effets,
     et faire glisser le doigt vers le haut ou vers le bas permet de régler la division temporelle de l’effet.
44. Tap/-Auto : Appuyer sur cette touche au moins 3 fois au tempo désiré permet de définir la vitesse du
    module d’effets BPM pour le canal défini par le bouton FX Channel Assign (la vitesse du module pour
    les autres canaux demeure inchangée). L’intensité de la touche Tap est faible lorsque le BPM est entré
    manuellement.
     Maintenir cette touche enfoncée pendant 1 seconde permet de synchroniser la vitesse du module
     d’effets BPM au signal audio du canal défini par le bouton FX Channel Assign (la vitesse du module
     pour les autres canaux demeure inchangée). L’intensité de la touche Tap est élevée lorsque le BPM est
     entré automatiquement et Auto s’affiche à côté du BPM sur le second écran. Si vous utilisez un lecteur
     multimédia compatible de Denon DJ avec Engine Connect, le second lecteur multimédia commandera
     le module d’effets BPM et le logo Engine s’affichera sur le second écran.
45. FX Frequency : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner la bande de fréquence du signal audio sur laquelle
    des effets BPM seront ajouter. Sélectionner la position centrale (12 h) permet d’ajouter les effets sur
    l’ensemble du spectre des fréquences.
46. Quantize/-Utility : Ce bouton permet de quantifier l'effet BPM sur les lecteurs multimédia connectés
    aux ports Link.
     Cette touche permet d’accéder et de quitter le menu Utility. Quitter le menu Utility enregistre également
     toutes les modifications apportées aux menus.
47. MIDI Start/Stop : Cette touche permet de transmettre un message MIDI Start ou MIDI Stop par le biais
    du port USB ou de la sortie MIDI (sélectionné dans le menu Utility). Le tempo sera en fonction de la
    sélection du bouton FX Channel Assign. Si vous modifiez la sélection du bouton FX Channel Assign,
    maintenez cette touche enfoncée afin de transmettre le nouveau tempo.
48. Engine Connect : Lorsque les ports Link sont reliés à des lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon
    DJ, appuyer sur cette touche permet d’activer la connexion par laquelle la X1850 PRIME peut recevoir
    des informations de minutage et de BPM (pour synchroniser les tempos d’effet), ainsi que transmettre
    des données de piste et d’utilisateur entre les lecteurs multimédias.
     Maintenir ce bouton enfoncé permet d’afficher l'assignation manuelle des canaux sur les écrans des
     lecteurs multimédia compatibles.
49. Ports USB : Utilisez des câbles USB standards afin de brancher des ordinateurs à ces ports USB.


Panneau arrière


                             1                 11
                     2                                10 10 10 10                         13
                                     8        9                                   12
                                                    15
                           4                    7           14
                                    5 6              16             3 3 3 3 3
1.   Entrée d’alimentation : Utilisez le câble d’alimentation verrouillable fourni pour brancher cette entrée à
     une prise secteur. Pour débrancher le câble d'alimentation, appuyez sur la languette jaune, puis retirez
     le câble de l'entrée. Vous pouvez également utiliser un câble d'alimentation CEI standard à la place du
     câble d'alimentation verrouillable fourni.
2.   Interrupteur d’alimentation : Cette touche permet de mettre la X1850 PRIME sous et hors tension.
     Veuillez mettre la X1850 PRIME sous tension uniquement après avoir raccordé tous les appareils
     d’entrée et avant de mettre les amplificateurs et enceintes sous tension. Veuillez mettre les
     amplificateurs et les enceintes hors tension avant de mettre la X1850 PRIME hors tension.


                                                                                                                37
3.   Ports Link : Ces ports permettent de brancher des lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ et/ou
     un ordinateur en utilisant des câbles réseau. Chaque lecteur multimédia du réseau peut utiliser cette
     connexion afin de partager des informations de minutage et de BPM avec la X1850 PRIME (afin de
     synchroniser les effets tempo), ainsi que des données de piste et d’utilisateur avec d’autres lecteurs
     multimédias.
4.   Sorties principales (XLR symétriques) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes ou un
     système d’amplification en utilisant des câbles XLR standard. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est
     commandé par le bouton Master du panneau supérieur.
5.   Sorties principales (RCA asymétriques) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes ou un
     système d’amplification en utilisant des câbles RCA standard. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est
     commandé par le bouton Master du panneau supérieur.
6.   Sorties d’enregistrement (RCA) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher une interface d’enregistrement,
     une console de mixage externe, etc., en utilisant des câbles RCA standard. Utilisez le menu Utility afin
     de sélectionner l’option d’inclure le signal audio des microphones dans le mix acheminé à ces sorties
     (veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > Microphone).
7.   Sorties cabine (6,35 mm, TRS) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes cabine ou un
     système d’amplification cabine en utilisant des câbles 6,35 mm standards. Le niveau du signal de ces
     sorties est commandé par le bouton Booth du panneau supérieur. Utilisez le menu Utility afin de
     sélectionner l’option d’inclure le signal audio des microphones dans le mix acheminé à ces sorties
     (veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > Microphone).
8.   Sorties Send (6,35 mm, TRS) : Ces sorties permettent de relier un module d’effets externe ou un autre
     appareil.
9.   Entrées Receive (6,35 mm, TRS) : Ces entrées permettent de relier un module d’effets externe ou un
     autre appareil. Utilisez le menu Utility afin de régler le niveau du signal audio (veuillez consulter la
     section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > FX).
10. Entrées Phono/Line (RCA) : Ces entrées à niveau ligne ou phono permettent de brancher des sources
    audio externe en utilisant des câbles RCA standard. Utilisez les sélecteurs d’entrée sur le panneau
    supérieur pour définir lequel des signaux des entrées à niveau ligne ou des entrées phono sera envoyé
    à chaque canal.
11. Borne de mise à la terre : Si vous utilisez des platines vinyle phono avec fil de mise à la terre, veillez à
    relier le fil à cette borne. S’il y a un ronflement ou du bruit, il se pourrait que vos platines vinyle ne soient
    pas mises à la terre.
     Remarque : Certaines platines vinyle sont dotées d’un fil de mise à la terre intégré à la connexion RCA,
     et donc, n’ont pas besoin d’être reliées à la borne de mise à la terre.
12. Entrée microphone 2 (6,35 mm, TRS) : Cette entrée permet de brancher un microphone
    électrodynamique standard en utilisant un câble 6,35 mm (non inclus). Le niveau du signal de cette
    entrée est commandé par le bouton Mic 2 Level du panneau supérieur.
13. Sortie MIDI (DIN à cinq broches) : Cette sortie permet de relier l’entrée MIDI d’un appareil MIDI externe
    en utilisant un câble MIDI DIN à cinq broches standard. Cette sortie vous permet de transmettre un
    message MIDI Start en utilisant la touche MIDI Send. Vous pouvez utiliser le menu Utility afin d’activer
    et de désactiver cette connexion (veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility >
    System).
14. Digital In (RCA numérique) : Ces entrées 24 bits/96 kHz permettent de relier les sorties numériques des
    lecteurs multimédias compatible de Denon DJ en utilisant des câbles RCA numériques.
15. Digital Link In (RCA numérique) : Lors de l’utilisation de plus d’une X1850 PRIME, utilisez un câble
    RCA numérique pour brancher cette entrée à la sortie numérique d’une autre X1850 PRIME.
16. Digital Out (RCA) numérique : Cette sortie permet de relier l’entrée numérique d’une autre X1850
    PRIME, d’une interface externe, d’une console de mixage, ou autre appareil, en utilisant un câble RCA
    numérique. Utilisez le menu Utility afin de régler le niveau du signal audio sortant (veuillez consulter la
    section Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > Advanced Audio).




38
Fonctionnement

Effets

Module d’effets BPM
Le module d’effet intégré vous permet d’appliquer des effets à des canaux spécifiques en fonction de son
tempo actuel.

Afin d’activer et de désactiver le module d’effets BPM, appuyez sur la touche BPM FX On/Off.

Afin de sélectionner le canal auquel seront ajoutés les effets du module d’effets BPM, tournez le bouton FX
  Channel Assign. Les options sont les suivantes : Channel 1, 2, 3 ou 4 ; X-Fader A ou B (un côté ou l’autre du
  crossfader) ; Mic (les deux signaux des microphones) ; ou Master (le mix principal).
Pour ajouter ou supprimer l’effet vers ou depuis le canal de pré-écoute, appuyez sur la touche FX Cue.
  Lorsque la touche est allumée, les effets seront ajoutés au canal de pré-écoute seulement.

Pour sélectionner un effet, tournez le bouton FX Select/Enter.
Les effets disponibles sont :
 • Echo : Cet effet permet d’ajouter de l’écho au signal original. Le bouton FX Parameter permet de
      définir le niveau de rétroaction de l’effet d’écho.
 • Delay : Cet effet permet d’ajouter des parties répétées du signal original qui s’affaiblissent avec le
      temps.
 • Hall Echo : Cet effet permet d’ajouter de la réverbération et de l’écho. Le bouton FX Parameter
      permet de définir le niveau de décroissance de l’écho.
 • Ping-pong : Cet effet permet d’ajouter un délai stéréo dont la vitesse diffère entre les canaux gauche
      et droit.
 • Auto Gate : Cet effet coupe le signal original à une vitesse régulière.
 • Flanger : Cet effet superpose à un signal le même signal, mais avec un léger retard afin de créer un
      effet de filtre en peigne (ressemblant à un avion à réaction).
 • Filter : Cet effet varie la fréquence de coupure du filtre à une vitesse régulière.
 • Phaser : Cet effet superpose à un signal le même signal, mais en décalage de phase afin de créer un
      effet de modulation subtile.
 • Bit Crush : Cet effet ajoute un filtre à faible débit binaire. Le bouton FX Parameter permet de définir
      le débit binaire moyen et la profondeur de bits afin de modifier le son de l’effet.
 • Reverb : Cet effet permet d’ajouter une réverbération au signal original. La quantité de délai ajouté
      dépend du tempo. Tourner le bouton FX Parameter permet de définir le niveau de décroissance de la
      réverbération, et appuyer sur le bouton FX Parameter lorsque la réverbération est activée permet de
      « geler » la réverbération et de couper le son du canal.
 • Roll : Cet effet échantillonne le signal audio actuel et le répète à une vitesse régulière selon la division
      temporelle actuel.
 • RevRoll (effet roll inversé) : Cet effet échantillonne le signal audio actuel et le répète à l’envers à une
      vitesse régulière selon la division temporelle actuel.
 • BeatBreak : Cet effet échantillonne les 4 temps de chaque mesure du signal original et les rejoue
      (dans la même mesure) selon un enchaînement programmé, afin de créer un effet de « bégaiement »
      ou de « breakbeat ».
      Pour sélectionner un enchaînement à utiliser, tournez le bouton FX Time pour sélectionner un des
         enchaînements illustrés dans le deuxième écran sous Pattern 0–15. Les 16 blocs ( █ ) et/ou lignes
         ( __ ) en dessous indiquent le rythme de l’enchaînement actuel de la même façon qu’un séquenceur
         pas à pas d’un module de percussion : un bloc représente une frappe et une ligne représente un
         silence.
      Exemples :
                                                            indique une frappe sur chaque temps.
                                                            indique une frappe sur chaque croche.
                                                   indique une frappe sur chaque double-croche
                                                   (chaque note de l’enchaînement).
     Utilisez le menu Utility afin de modifier les enchaînements (veuillez consulter la section
     Fonctionnement > Menu Utility > FX).

                                                                                                            39
 •   Scratch : Cet effet alterne entre la lecture normale et inversée de chaque temps, créant un effet de
     scratch sur un vinyle.
 •   Pumper : Cet effet atténue l'audio sur le temps fort, semblable à un compresseur parallèle. Les
     paramètres disponibles sont :
        o Duck : Ce paramètre permet de définir l’atténuation du volume : -2 dB à -20 dB.
        o Offset : Ce paramètre permet de définir le temps de décalage de l’atténuation en battements : -
           1/16, -1/8, -1/4 et -1/2.
 •   Echo Hold : Cet effet applique un écho qui, lorsque le bouton FX Amount est tourné dans le sens
     horaire au-delà du point central, maintient la répétition sur le dernier écho. Tourner le bouton FX
     Amount dans le sens antihoraire, au-delà du point central, permet de désactiver la répétition de
     l'écho.
 •   SendRtn (send/return) : Cette option permet d’activer les sorties Send et les entrées Receive qui
     permettent d’ajouter des effets externes au signal.

Tous les effets BPM sont à base temporelle, ainsi le module d’effets BPM dispose de plusieurs façons de
programmer ou de détecter le tempo qu’il utilisera.
     Pour régler la division temporelle du module d’effets BPM, effectuez l’une des opérations suivantes :
            • Veillez à ce que la division temporelle (__ Beat) soit sélectionnée dans l’écran inférieur (si ce
                n’est pas le cas, appuyez sur le bouton FX Time), puis tournez le bouton FX Time pour
                sélectionner une autre division temporelle.
            • Lorsque la touche Instant est désactivée, tapez sur la barre tactile des effets pour
                sélectionner une division temporelle. Le témoin correspondant sur la barre s’allumera afin
                d’indiquer la division temporelle actuelle.
     Pour régler la vitesse du module d’effets BPM en millisecondes, veillez à ce que la vitesse en
        milliseconde (__ ms) soit sélectionnée dans l’écran inférieur (si ce n’est pas le cas, appuyez sur le
        bouton FX Time), puis tournez le bouton FX Time pour régler la valeur.

Pour entrer un nouveau tempo, appuyez sur la touche Tap au moins 3 fois au tempo désiré. Ceci permet
  de définir la vitesse du module d’effets BPM pour le canal défini par le bouton FX Channel Assign (la
  vitesse du module pour les autres canaux demeure inchangée). L’intensité de la touche Tap est faible
  lorsque le BPM est entré manuellement.
Pour détecter le tempo automatiquement, maintenez la touche Tap/-Auto enfoncée pendant 1 seconde. Ceci
  permet de synchroniser la vitesse du module d’effets BPM au signal audio du canal défini par le bouton FX
  Channel Assign (la vitesse du module pour les autres canaux demeure inchangée). L’intensité de la touche Tap
  est élevée lorsque le BPM est entré automatiquement et Auto s’affiche à côté du BPM sur le second écran.
  Remarque : Si vous utilisez un lecteur multimédia compatible de Denon DJ avec Engine Connect, le second
  lecteur multimédia commandera le module d’effets BPM et le logo Engine s’affichera sur le second écran.
Pour régler le tempo manuellement, maintenez la touche Tap/-Auto enfoncée, puis tournez le bouton FX
  Time pour régler le BPM par incréments de 1. Tout en maintenant la touche Tap/-Auto enfoncée,
  appuyez sur le bouton FX Time pour régler le BPM par incréments de 0.1.
Pour activer la quantification des effets, utilisez le paramètre FX Quantize dans le menu Utility > FX.
  Lorsque cette option est activée, BPM FX s'active à partir d'un battement ou d'un incrément de
  battement en utilisant la grille de battements d'un lecteur multimédia compatible.

Vous pouvez facilement modifier la quantité du signal d’effet afin d’ajuster l’équilibre entre le signal traité
(signal de sortie du module d’effets BPM) et le signal non traité (signal sans effets).
      Pour régler l’équilibre entre le signal traité et non traité, tournez le bouton FX Amount. Vous
         pouvez également utiliser la barre tactile des effets en mode Instant FX (voir ci-dessous).

Généralement, les effets sont ajoutés à l’ensemble du spectre des fréquences, mais la X1850 PRIME
permet également de les ajouter à une bande de fréquences isolées du signal audio (sur le canal
sélectionné).
      Pour sélectionner la bande de fréquences, tournez le bouton FX Frequency. Sélectionner la
        position centrale (12 h) permet d’ajouter les effets sur l’ensemble du spectre des fréquences.

Le mode Instant FX permet d’utiliser la barre tactile des effets pour activer l’effet et régler sa division
temporelle simultanément.
    Pour activer et désactiver le mode Instant FX, appuyez sur la touche Instant. La touche s’allume
       lorsque cette fonction est activée.
    Pour activer l’effet, tapez et maintenez un doigt sur la barre tactile des effets, puis glissez le doigt
       vers le haut ou vers le bas afin de régler la division temporelle de l’effet.

40
Sweep FX
Sweep FX permet d’ajouter l’un des quatre effets aux quatre canaux et de le faire « balayer » en utilisant les
boutons Sweep FX. Seulement un effet de balayage peut être ajouter appliquer à la fois.

Pour activer un effet de balayage, appuyez sur l’une des touches Sweep FX : Dub Echo, Noise, Wash
  Out ou Gate. La touche s’allume lorsque cette fonction est activée. Seulement une des touches peut être
  activée à la fois.
Pour désactiver l’effet de balayage, appuyez sur la touche Sweep FX allumée. Vous pouvez également
  appuyer sur une des autres touches Sweep FX pour activer cet effet, ce qui désactivera l’autre.

Pour tous les effets de balayage, lorsque le bouton Sweep FX est réglé sur la position centrale (12 h), l’effet
n’est pas ajouté. Tourner le bouton Sweep FX dans le sens horaire et antihoraire permet d’ajouter l’effet et
de produire différents résultats selon la direction et le type d’effet. Les effets de balayage disponibles et leurs
fonctions sont les suivants :
 •    Dub Echo : Cet effet permet d’ajouter un bref écho. Tourner un des boutons Sweep FX dans le sens
      antihoraire permet de diminuer la longueur du délai et d’augmenter la rétroaction, et tourner dans le
      sens horaire permet d’augmenter la longueur du délai ainsi que la rétroaction.
 •    Noise : Cet effet permet d’ajouter du bruit au signal. À partir de la position centrale (12 h), tourner un
      des boutons Sweep FX dans le sens horaire permet d’ajouter du bruit blanc, et tourner dans le sens
      antihoraire permet d’ajouter du bruit blanc avec un effet de gate synchronisé au tempo du canal.
 •    Wash Out : Ceci crée un effet de transition. Tourner un des boutons Sweep FX dans le sens
      antihoraire jusqu’à sa position minimum permet d’ajouter un effet d’un écho d’un demi-temps qui met
      en sourdine le signal audio normal du canal, et tourner dans le sens horaire jusqu’à sa position
      maximum permet d’appliquer un écho d’un temps.
 •    Gate : Cet effet permet d’ajouter au signal un effet de gate basé sur le temps. Tourner un des
      boutons Sweep FX dans le sens antihoraire à partir de la position centrale (12 h) permet d’ajouter un
      effet de gate synchronisé au tempo du canal, et tourner dans le sens horaire permet d’ajouter un effet
      de gate qui atténue le signal. Plus le bouton est tourné dans le sens horaire, plus l'atténuation est
      importante.


Menu Utility

Le menu Utility permet de personnaliser différents paramètres de la X1850 PRIME qui affectent le routage
du signal audio, le module d’effets, le niveau des entrées et des sorties, et bien plus.

Pour accéder ou quitter le menu Utility, appuyez et maintenez sur la touche Quantize/–Utility. Quitter le
  menu Utility enregistre également toutes les modifications apportées.

Dans le menu Utility, vous pouvez effectuer les opérations suivantes :
 •    Pour sélectionner une option, tournez le bouton FX Select/Enter.
 •    Pour confirmer votre sélection ou accéder à un sous-menu, appuyez sur le bouton FX Select/Enter.
 •    Pour revenir à la fenêtre précédente, appuyez sur la touche Back.

Voici les descriptions des différents sous-menus du menu Utility :

EQ
Ces paramètres déterminent comment fonctionnent les boutons d’égalisation des canaux.
 •    Type : Sélectionnez ISO pour définir les plages des boutons d’égalisation des canaux de -∞ à
      +6dB/+10dB (comme indiqué). Sélectionnez EQ pour définir les plages des boutons d’égalisation des
      canaux de -24dB à +6dB (pour certains lecteurs qui requirent ces réglages).
 •    High Cross Over : Ce paramètre permet de définir la fréquence de coupure entre les boutons
      d’égalisation High et Mid lorsque le Type est réglé sur ISO : 1000Hz–8000Hz (par différents incréments).
 •    Low Cross Over : Ce paramètre permet de définir la fréquence de coupure entre les boutons
      d’égalisation Mid et Low lorsque le Type est réglé sur ISO : 100Hz–800Hz (par différents incréments).
 •    Reset EQ Default : Sélectionnez OK pour réinitialiser les paramètres d’égalisation des canaux à leurs
      valeurs par défaut, ou sélectionnez Cancel pour revenir au menu précédent.


                                                                                                                41
Filter
 •   Resonance : Ce paramètre permet de définir la résonance des filtres sur les canaux 1 à 4 (c.-à-d., les
     fréquences juste au-delà de la fréquence de coupure qui ne seront pas coupées par le filtre). 0 est un
     paramètre plat (les fréquences juste au-delà de la fréquence de coupure ne seront pas entendues du
     tout), alors que 15 donne une résonance élevée (la fréquence de coupure n’est pas aussi « stricte »,
     donc certaines fréquences près du seuil seront entendues).
 •   Extreme Type : Ce paramètre permet de déterminer l’effet des filtres de balayage sur les
     fréquences basses et hautes extrêmes. Sélectionner Kill fait en sorte que les fréquences extrêmes du
     filtre se terminent en silence, et sélectionner Bleed fait en sorte que les fréquences extrêmes du filtre
     sont jouées.

Headphones
 •   Attenuation : Ce paramètre permet de régler le niveau de gain de la sortie du casque d’écoute :
     -10dB à +10dB.
 •   Split Cue Output : Ce paramètre permet de déterminer le côté du signal stéréo qui joue le programme
     Cue sur le casque d’écoute, gauche (Left) ou droite (Right).

Microphone
Ces paramètres affectent les microphones.
 • Attenuation : Ce paramètre permet de régler le niveau de gain des entrées microphone : -15dB à
     0dB.
 • Gate Threshold : Ce paramètre permet de modifier le niveau du signal audio nécessaire pour activer
     le signal du microphone. Certains types de microphones peuvent nécessiter différents seuils pour une
     utilisation optimale : -40 dB à -79 dB.
 • Talk Over Level : Ce paramètre détermine la quantité d’atténuation apportée au volume du mix
     principal lorsque la fonction talkover est activée : -40dB à -20dB.
 • Talk Over Resume : Lorsque la fonction talkover est utilisée, le volume du mix principal revient à son
     niveau normal dès que l’entrée microphone ne détecte aucun signal entrant. Ce paramètre détermine
     si la transition se produit normalement (Normal) ou rapidement (Fast).
 • EQ High : Ce paramètre définit la bande de fréquences qui est affectée par le bouton d’égalisation
     microphone High. 1,000Hz–10,000Hz (par différents incréments).
 • EQ Low : Ce paramètre définit la bande de fréquences qui est affectée par le bouton d’égalisation
     microphone Low. 100Hz–900Hz (par différents incréments).
 • Booth Receive : Sélectionnez On afin que le signal du microphone soit acheminé aux sorties cabine.
     Sélectionnez Off pour supprimer le signal du microphone des sorties cabine.
 • Headphone Receive : Sélectionner On permet d’envoyer le signal du microphone à la sortie casque.
     Sélectionnez Off pour supprimer le signal du microphone des sorties casque.
 • Reset Mic Default : Sélectionnez OK pour réinitialiser les paramètres microphone à leurs valeurs par
     défaut, ou sélectionnez Cancel pour revenir au menu précédent.

FX
Ces paramètres modifient l’effet sur la X1850 PRIME.
 • FX Return : Cette option permet de régler le niveau unitaire des sorties Send et des entrées Receive :
     -10dB–+10dB. Il se peut que vous ayez à régler ce paramètre selon les types d’effets externes que
     vous utilisez.
 • Beat Break Edit : Ce menu permet de sélectionner, de modifier et de sauvegarder les enchaînements
     de l’effet BeatBreak. Veuillez consulter la section Effets > Module d’effets BPM afin d’en savoir plus
     sur le fonctionnement de cet effet.
     Pour modifier un enchaînement :
     1. Tournez le bouton FX Select/Enter pour sélectionner un enchaînement (1–16), puis appuyez sur
          le bouton.
     2. Tournez le bouton FX Select/Enter pour sélectionner une des 12 doubles-croches de
          l’enchaînement. Vous ne pouvez modifier les quatre temps principaux de l’enchaînement ; ils seront
          toujours perceptibles, car ils contiennent l’audio échantillonné.
          Appuyez sur le bouton FX Select/Enter pour modifier le temps d’une frappe ( █ ) à un silence ( __ )
          et vice versa.
          Répétez cette étape, si désiré.
     3. Appuyez sur la touche Back pour revenir à la fenêtre précédente.


42
 •   FX List Customize : Cette fenêtre permet de personnaliser l’ordre des effets. Tournez le bouton FX
     Select/Enter afin de sélectionner un effet de la liste de ceux disponibles sur le côté gauche, puis
     appuyez sur le bouton pour ajouter l’effet au nouvel ordre des effets sur le côté droit. Répétez cette
     étape pour chaque effet, ou sélectionnez -Cancel- pour revenir à la fenêtre précédente. Après avoir
     terminé, sélectionnez -End- pour enregistrer votre liste personnalisée.
 •   BPM FX On Color : Ce paramètre détermine la couleur de la touche BPM FX On/Off lorsqu’elle
     clignote : red (rouge), spring green (vert tendre), green (vert), light blue (bleu pâle), blue (bleu),
     yellow (jaune), orange ou purple (violet).
 •   Noise Level : Ce paramètre permet de déterminer le niveau de bruit lors de l’utilisation de l’effet Noise
     Sweep FX : -20 dB à +15 dB.
 •   FX Quantize : Ce paramètre permet de déterminer le temps que l’effet met à s’activer une fois que la
     touche BPM FX est enfoncée : 1, 1/2, 1/4 et 1/8 battement. Ceci permet de synchroniser l’effet au
     rythme de la grille de battements des lecteurs multimédia connectés.
 •   FX Limiter : Sélectionner On permet de limiter le volume de la sortie d’effet afin qu’il soit égal à
     l’entrée du canal. Lorsque le paramètre est réglé sur Off, aucun limiteur n'est ajouté à l’effet.


Advanced Audio
Ces paramètres déterminent le fonctionnement numérique de la console de mixage et des autres fonctions
évoluées.
 •   Sampling Rate : Ce paramètre permet de définir la fréquence d’échantillonnage du signal audio USB :
     44.1kHz, 48kHz ou 96kHz.
 •   Master Out Level : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau du volume des
     sorties principales : -15dB à 0dB.
 •   Master Limiter : Ce paramètre permet d'ajouter un limiteur à la sortie principale : 20 dB à 0 dB.
     Lorsque le paramètre est réglé sur Off, aucun limiteur n'est ajouté à la sortie principale.
 •   Booth Settings : Ces paramètres déterminent le routage du signal cabine :
      o Booth Pan : Ce paramètre permet de faire le panoramique du signal cabine en même temps
           que le signal principal : activé (Enable) et désactivé (Disable).
      o Booth Out Level : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau du volume
           des sorties cabine : 0dB à -15dB.
 •   USB Audio : Ces paramètres déterminent le routage et les niveaux du signal audio USB.
      o CH1–4/Master/Cue Assign : Ces paramètres déterminent quels canaux audio USB (1/2–9/10)
           recevront le signal audio des canaux 1 à 4 (CH1–CH4), et le mix principal (Master).
      o Output Level : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau du mix
           principal envoyé à votre ordinateur via une connexion USB : -20dB à +20dB.
      o Ch Input Level : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau des signaux
           envoyés aux canaux 1 à 4 depuis votre ordinateur via une connexion USB : -20dB à +20dB.
      o Mode diffusion : Lorsque ce paramètre est réglé sur On, le mode diffusion est activé et permet
           de transmettre le signal principal à un ordinateur via les canaux audio USB 1–2 afin d’utiliser un
           logiciel de diffusion. Régler ce paramètre sur Off permet de désactiver le mode diffusion.
           Remarque : Lorsque le mode diffusion est activé, un message apparaît afin d’indiquer que le
           DVS sur le canal 1 sera désactivé. Appuyez sur la touche Enter pour continuer.
 •   DVS Setup : Pour les canaux 1 à 4 (CH1–CH4), sélectionnez le niveau d’entrée que chacun des
     canaux utilise lorsque son sélecteur d’entrée est réglé sur DVS. Sélectionnez Phono afin d’utiliser des
     disques de commande vinyle ou Line afin d’utiliser des CD de commande.
 •   Digital Settings :
      o Digital Out : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau du signal envoyé
           depuis la sortie numérique : -20dB à +20dB.
      o Digital Link : Sélectionnez On pour combiner le signal sortant avant d’être traité par les boutons
           Master et Booth, qui vous permettent de contrôler le niveau de sortie. Sélectionnez Off pour
           combiner le signal sortant après avoir été traité par les boutons Master et Booth, qui n’auront
           pas d’effet sur le niveau de sortie.
      o Link Level : Ce paramètre permet de définir une compensation pour le niveau du signal envoyé
           à l’entrée numérique : -20dB à +20dB.
 •   Cross Fader Cut : Ces paramètres déterminent dans quelle mesure vous devez déplacer le
     crossfader de chaque côté (Fader Cut A ou B) pour qu’il puisse commencer à affecter le signal
     audio : -2.0mm à 1.0mm

                                                                                                           43
System
Ces paramètres déterminent le fonctionnement général.
 •   Info : Ces fenêtres contiennent des informations concernant la version actuelle du progiciel et des
     informations réseau.
       o Version : C’est la version actuelle du progiciel de la X1850 PRIME.
       o IP address : C’est l’adresse IP qu’utilise la X1850 PRIME.
       o MAC address : C’est l’adresse MAC qu’utilise la X1850 PRIME.
 •   Display :
       o Display Brightness : Ce paramètre permet de modifier la luminosité de l’écran DELO : faible
           (Low), moyenne (Mid) et élevée (High).
       o LED Brightness : Ce paramètre permet de modifier la luminosité de toutes les DEL sur la
           surface de commande : faible (Low), moyenne (Mid) et élevée (High).
 •   Engine Connect : Sélectionnez Auto afin de permettre à la X1850 PRIME de recevoir automatiquement
     des informations de minutage et de BPM (pour synchroniser les tempos d’effet) des lecteurs multimédias
     compatible branchés à ses ports Link, ainsi que de transmettre des données de piste et d’utilisateur entre
     les lecteurs multimédias. La X1850 PRIME détecte et configure automatiquement chaque lecteur
     multimédia branchés à ses ports link. Sélectionnez Manual afin de désactiver la connexion automatique
     et seulement activer cette fonction manuellement en appuyant sur la touche Engine Connect jusqu’à ce
     que la fenêtre Channel Assignment s’affiche sur les lecteurs multimédias. Vous pouvez ensuite affecter
     chaque niveau lecteur multimédia à un canal spécifique.
 •   Cue Settings :
      o Cue Solo Mode : Sélectionnez On pour utiliser les touches Channel Cue comme touche de
          mise en solo (appuyer sur une des touches coupe le signal de tous les autres canaux).
          Sélectionnez Off pour les utiliser comme touches de pré-écoute normale (appuyer sur une des
          touches transmet son signal au canal de pré-écoute).
      o Cue 1–4 Color : Ce paramètre détermine la couleur des touches Cue pour chaque canal : red
          (rouge), spring green (vert tendre), green (vert), light blue (bleu pâle), blue (bleu), yellow
          (jaune), orange ou purple (violet).
      o Reset Cue Defaults : Sélectionnez OK pour réinitialiser les paramètres Cue à leurs valeurs par
          défaut, ou sélectionnez Cancel pour revenir au menu précédent.
 •   Contour Lock : Sélectionner On permet de verrouiller le Crossfader Contour sur la position actuelle
     du bouton afin qu'il ne soit pas modifié si le bouton est déplacé par inadvertance. Sélectionner Off
     permet de désactiver le verrouillage du bouton.
 •   Through Position Lock : Sélectionner On permet de verrouiller les commutateurs Crossfader Assign
     sur la position Thru afin qu'ils ne soient pas modifiés s’ils sont déplacés par inadvertance.
     Sélectionner Off permet de désactiver le verrouillage.
 •   Network Settings :
      o Refresh IP Address : Sélectionnez OK pour renouveler l’adresse IP, qui rétablit la connexion
           entre la X1850 PRIME et les lecteurs multimédias branchés sur les ports Link. Sélectionnez
           Cancel pour revenir à la fenêtre précédente.
 •   MIDI : Ces paramètres MIDI déterminent comment les connexions MIDI sont utilisées.
      o Clock Send : Ces paramètres permettent de déterminer si la X1850 PRIME transmettra des
          messages d’horloge MIDI sur chacune de ces connexions. Pour chaque option, sélectionnez On
          afin d’activer la transmission MIDI ou Off afin de la désactiver.
             USB : Ce paramètre s’applique aux ports USB 1 et 2. Si vous utilisez la X1850 PRIME
                pour commander un logiciel, sélectionnez On.
             5pin : Ce paramètre s’applique à la sortie MIDI.
      o Active Send : Ces paramètres permettent de déterminer si la X1850 PRIME transmettra des
          messages MIDI normaux sur chacune de ces connexions. Pour chaque option, sélectionnez On
          afin d’activer la transmission MIDI ou Off afin de la désactiver.
             USB : Ce paramètre s’applique aux ports USB 1 et 2. Si vous utilisez la X1850 PRIME
                pour commander un logiciel, sélectionnez On.
             5pin : Ce paramètre s’applique à la sortie MIDI.
 •   Factory Reset : Sélectionnez OK pour réinitialiser tous les paramètres d’usine par défaut de la X1850
     PRIME (ceci peut prendre quelques secondes avant que l’appareil ne reprenne son fonctionnement
     normal). Sélectionnez Cancel pour revenir à la fenêtre précédente.

44
Guida per l’uso (Italiano)
Introduzione
Grazie per aver acquistato il X1850 PRIME. Noi di Denon DJ sappiamo che per te la musica è una cosa
seria. Ecco perché progettiamo i nostri dispositivi con un unico obiettivo in mente: rendere le tue prestazioni
le migliori possibili. Siamo onorati ed emozionati di avere un ruolo nel tuo viaggio musicale e creativo da DJ!

Caratteristiche:
 • Mixer digitale a 4 canali con 4 canali commutabili fono/linea
 • Sezione BPM effeti con isolamento di banda con controllo di frequenza
 • Doppi collegamenti audio USB per software e dispositivi audio
 • Manopole Sweep e BPM effeti dedicate: effetti di alta qualità per ciascun canale con un singolo tocco
   della manopola
 • Manopole Sweep e BPM FX dedicate — effetti di alta qualità, inclusi i nuovi Pumper ed Echo Hold FX,
   per ciascun canale con un solo giro della manopola
 • Quantizzazione FX per l’attivazione FX
 • EQ Espressivo: possibilità di scelta tra le modalità Classic o Isolation e controllo della risonanza con
   filtro regolabile
 • Protocollo Engine Connect per effeti con beatgrid bloccata
 • Crossfader espressivo Denon DJ Flex-Fader
 • Collegamento di effetti e strumenti basati su MIDI
 • Uscita digitale a 24-bit/96kHz per una qualità audio senza compromessi
 • Nitido schermo OLED per regolazioni precise basate su menu
 • 4 ingressi digitali per mix audio ad alta risoluzione
 • Hub LAN per un massimo di quattro lettori o accessori
 • Robusta struttura in metallo
 • Blocco del collegamento all’alimentazione IEC

Contenuti della confezione
X1850 PRIME                        Guida per l’uso
Cavo USB                           Istruzioni di sicurezza e garanzia
Cavo di alimentazione

Assistenza
Per le ultime informazioni in merito a questo prodotto (documentazione, specifiche tecniche, requisiti di
sistema, informazioni sulla compatibilità, ecc.) e per effettuarne la registrazione, recarsi alla pagina
denondj.com.
Per ulteriore assistenza sul prodotto, recarsi alla pagina denondj.com/support.

Registrazione del prodotto

Il prodotto può includere software esclusivo e/o promozioni cui è unicamente possibile accedere
registrando il nuovo prodotto sul sito Web di Denon DJ.

Per verificare la propria idoneità e avere accesso ai contenuti disponibili, registrare il prodotto seguendo le
istruzioni fornite:
1. Recarsi su denondj.com.
2. Fare clic su Sign In per accedere al proprio account esistente o per crearne uno nuovo.
3. Una volta effettuato il login, fare clic su My Registered Products (I miei prodotti registrati).
4. Inserire il numero di serie del prodotto nella casella e fare clic su Register Product (Registra prodotto).
5. In seguito alla registrazione, qualsiasi software scaricabile, contenuti esclusivi e offerte promozionali
     compariranno nel proprio account.

                                                                                                            45
Configurazione
1.   Assicurarsi che tutti i dispositivi siano spenti (off) o che i loro livelli di volume siano tutti al minimo.
2.   Collegare le uscite audio dei media player agli ingressi dell’X1850 PRIME.
3.   Se si utilizzano lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ, collegare le relative porte Link alle porte Link
     dell’X1850 PRIME secondo quanto illustrato in uno dei seguenti esempi di schemi di collegamento.
4. Collegare altri dispositivi (giradischi, cuffie, amplificatori, altoparlanti, ecc.) agli ingressi o uscite
     dell’X1850 PRIME.
5. Collegare tutti i dispositivi a fonti di alimentazione.
Quando si avvia una sessione, accendere (1) i media player e altre fonti di ingresso, (2) l’X1850 PRIME e
quindi (3) i dispositivi di uscita.
Al termine di una sessione, spegnere (1) i dispositivi di uscita, (2) l’X1850 PRIME, e quindi (3) i media player
e le altre fonti di ingresso.


Schemi di collagamento

Elementi non elencati sotto Introduzione > Contenuti della confezione sono venduti separatamente.

Esempio 1

 Lettore media di                                                               Lettore media di
    Denon DJ                                                                       Denon DJ




                                                                              Presa di
        Presa di
                                                                           alimentazione
     alimentazione


Esempio 2




                                Lettori media                       Lettori media
                                di Denon DJ                         di Denon DJ
   Presa di                                                                                         Presa di
alimentazione                                                                                    alimentazione




         Presa di                                                                               Presa di
      alimentazione                                                                          alimentazione




46
Collegamento a una rete

Si può utilizzare l’X1850 PRIME per collegare in rete più lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ, consentendo
loro di condividere in maniera ininterrotta informazioni di tempo e BPM con l’X1850 PRIME (per
sincronizzare il tempo degli effetti) nonché i dati relativi alle tracce e al profilo utente con altre lettori media.
Questa funzione offre alcuni vantaggi durante le esibizioni. Ad esempio, se si utilizzano quattro lettori media
compatibile di Denon DJ, si può utilizzare una di esse per navigare lungo tutte le tracce su tutti i dispositivi
(drive USB o schede SD) collegati a una qualsiasi di tali lettori media. Si possono poi riprodurre queste
tracce immediatamente senza dover trasferire un dispositivo da un’unità all’altra.

Per creare una rete di media player Denon DJ compatibili, servirsi dei cavi di rete in dotazione per
  collegare ciascuna delle rispettive porte Link a una porta Link (1–4) sul pannello posteriore dell’X1850
  PRIME.
La spia Network (Media Status) su ciascun media player si accenderà quando è debitamente collegato a
una rete.


In via predefinita, l’X1850 PRIME è impostato in modo tale da rilevare e configurare automaticamente
ciascun media player compatibile con Denon DJ una volta che vengono collegate le rispettive porte Link. La
porta Link sull’X1850 PRIME determinerà quali canali utilizzerà quel media player. Si vedano gli scenari qui
di seguito.
Si può anche assegnare liberamente ciascun layer del media player a un canale specifico cambiando le
impostazioni Engine Connect nel menu Utilità sull’X1850 PRIME. Si veda la Guida per l'uso del media
player per saperne di più.



    Porta Link 1                                                Porta Link 2




                            Layer Layer                                                Layer Layer
                              A     B                                                    B     A




    Porta Link 3                                                Porta Link 4




                                           Layer Layer                                                 Layer Layer
                                             A     B                                                     B     A



                                                                                                                  47
Caratteristiche
Pannello superiore

                                                                         23
                                    2        2        2        2
                        25          1        1        1        1        22         49
                        26               3        3        3        3 24      46 47 48
                               27
                        26               4        4        4        4
                               28 5          5        5        5        21 21      34
                        29               4        4        4        4

                        29               4        4        4        4         40 39 41
                         9
                                    8        8        8        8        20      38
                        11                                                    42
                                    10       10       10       10       19              43
                        32          7        7        7        7        18
                                                                              44
                                    12       12       12       12
                        33                                              17
                                                                              45
                        31
                                         6        6        6        6 16
                                                                              37
                        30          13       13       13       13
                        30                            14                      35        36
                                        15                      15

1.   Input Select (seleziona ingressi): girare queste manopole per selezionare la fonte audio desiderata per
     ciascun canale:
      • Digital: quando questa opzione viene selezionata, la fonte audio sono gli ingressi digitali
      • Line: quando questa opzione viene selezionata, la fonte audio sono gli ingressi di linea
      • Phono: quando questa opzione viene selezionata, la fonte audio sono gli ingressi phono
      • USB: quando questa opzione viene selezionata, la fonte audio è un computer connesso a una
        porta USB
      • DVS: quando questa opzione viene selezionata, la fonte audio è un computer connesso a una
        porta USB mentre si utilizza un controllo vinile con un impianto di vinili digitale
2.   USB 1/2: quando la manopola Input Select è impostata su USB, servirsi di questi interruttori per
     selezionare la porta USB 1 o la porta USB 2 come fonte. Quando un computer è connesso a quella
     porta, il canale controllerà il canale corrispondente nel software.
3.   Level (livello): girare queste manopole per regolare il livello del segnale audio pre-fader, pre-EQ per
     ciascun canale.
4.   EQ (High, Mid, Low) (alto, medio e basso): girare queste manopole per incrementare o tagliare le
     frequenze alte, medie e basse di ciascun canale. Si può utilizzare il menù Utilità per impostare il tipo di
     EQ, che determina i valori minimo (di taglio) e massimo (di incremento) (si veda Operazione > Menu
     Utilità > EQ).
5.   Misuratori di livello canale: questi LED mostrano il livello del segnale audio di ciascun fader canale,
     pre-canale.
6.   Fader canale: servirsi di questi fader per regolare il livello di volume di ciascun canale.


48
7.   Channel Cue (Cue canale): premere questi tasti per inviare il segnale pre-fader di ciascun canale al
     canale cue delle cuffie. Premere uno o più di questi tasti contemporaneamente per inviare i segnali dei
     loro canali al canale cue simultaneamente.
8.   Manopole Filter: girare queste manopole per regolare il filtro applicato a ciascun canale. Girare la
     manopola in senso antiorario per applicare un filtro passa basso. Girare la manopola in senso orario per
     applicare un filtro passa alto.
9.   Tasto Filter: premere questo tasto per abilitare o disabilitare i filtri (controllati dalle manopole Filter) su
     tutti i canali.
10. Manopola Sweep FX: girare queste manopole per regolare l’equilibrio tra il segnale “wet” (il segnale di
    uscita dell’effetto sweep) e il segnale “dry” (audio senza effetti sweep applicati). Selezionare la
    posizione centrale (12:00) per scegliere un segnale interamente dry.
11. Tasto Sweep FX: premere uno di questi tasti per abilitare o disabilitare un effetto controllabile con le
    manopole Sweep FX. È possibile abilitare solo uno di questi tasti alla volta.
      •    Dub Echo: questo effetto è un breve eco. Iniziando dalla posizione centrale (12:00), girare una
           manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario per ridurre la lunghezza del ritardo e aumentare il
           feedback, oppure girarla in senso orario per aumentare la lunghezza del ritardo e del feedback.
      •    Noise: questo effetto aggiunge rumore al segnale. A partire dalla posizione centrale (ore 12),
           girare una manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario per aggiungere rumore bianco con un effetto
           gate basato sul tempo, oppure girarla in senso orario per aggiungere rumore bianco
      •    Wash Out: crea un effetto di transizione. Girare una manopola Sweep FX nella sua posizione
           antioraria estrema (minimo) per applicare un eco di 1/2 beat che silenzierà anche il normale
           segnale audio del canale, oppure girarlo alla posizione estrema oraria (massima) per applicare un
           eco da 1 beat.
      •    Gate: questo effetto applica un effetto gate basato sul tempo al segnale. A partire dalla posizione
           centrale (ore 12), girare una manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario per applicare un effetto gate
           sincronizzato con il tempo del canale, oppure girarla in senso orario per applicare un effetto gate
           che attenua il segnale. Più la manopola è girata in senso antiorario, maggiore sarà l’attenuazione.
12. Indicatori BPM FX: queste spie si illuminano per indicare se un canale è stato selezionato ed è
    influenzato dal modulo effetti BPM quando la manopola FX Channel Assign è impostata su Channel 1,
    2, 3, o 4; X-Fader A o B (se il canale è assegnato al lato attivo); o Master (tutti i canali).
13. Crossfader Assign: convoglia l’audio riprodotto sul canale corrispondente a ciascun lato del
    crossfader —A (sinistro) o B (destro) — oppure bypassa il crossfader e invia l’audio direttamente al mix
    di programma —Thru (centro).
14. Crossfader: servirsi di questo crossfader per mixare tra i deck attivi.
15. Indicatori del crossfader: queste spie si illuminano per indicare se un lato del crossfader è stato
    selezionato ed è influenzato dal modulo effetti (quando la manopola FX Channel Assign è impostata su
    X-Fader A o B).
16. X Fader Contour: girare questa manopola per regolare la curva del crossfader. Girare la manopola verso
    sinistra per una dissolvenza uniforme (mix) oppure verso destra per un taglio netto (scratch). La posizione
    centrale è un’impostazione tipica per esibizioni in discoteca.
17. Ch Fader Contour: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume dei fader canale. Girare la
    manopola in senso antiorario per alzare il volume “più tardi” (più vicino al punto massimo del fader).
    Girarla in senso orario per per alzare il volume “più presto” (quasi immediatamente dopo aver mosso il
    fader dalla sua posizione minima). La posizione centrale è un aumento di volume lineare.
18. X Fader Start: servirsi di questo interruttore per attivare o disattivare il crossfader start. Una volta
    attivato, è possibile avviare automaticamente la riproduzione dei lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ
    assegnate a ciascun lato del crossfader muovendo il crossfader verso quel lato.
19. Channel Fader Start: servirsi di questo interruttore per attivare o disattivare il channel fader start. Una
    volta attivato, è possibile avviare automaticamente la riproduzione dei lettori media compatibile di
    Denon DJ assegnate a ciascun canale muovendo il fader di canale verso l’alto.
20. Booth: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume delle uscite booth.
21. Misuratori di livello master: questi LED mostrano a display il livello di segnale audio del mix master
    (inviato dalle uscite master).
22. Master: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume delle uscite master.
23. Selettore Stereo/Mono: servirsi di questo interruttore per impostare la configurazione del canale delle
    uscite Master. Stereo (audio binaurale utilizzando canali sinistro e destro distinti) o Mono (audio
    monaurale sommato tramite entrambi i canali sinistro e destro).

                                                                                                                 49
24. Pan: girare questa manopola per regolare la posizione del segnale delle uscite master nel campo
    stereo.
25. Ingresso Mic 1: servirsi di un cavo standard XLR o da 6,35 mm (1/4”) (non in dotazione) per collegare
    un microfono dinamico standard a questo ingresso. Servirsi della manopola Mic 1 Level sul pannello
    superiore per controllare il livello del volume.
26. Mic 1/2 Level: girare queste manopole per regolare il livello del volume degli ingressi microfono
    corrispondenti. La spia accanto a ciascuna manopola indica il livello attuale del segnale con il rispettivo
    colore: verde (normale/ottimale), arancione (medio) o rosso (massimo/picco).
27. Mic On/Off: premere questi tasti per attivare o disattivare il microfono corrispondente.
28. Talk Over: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare la funzione “talkover”, che riduce
    automaticamente il livello di volume del mix master quando si parla al microfono. Si può utilizzare il menù
    Utilità per impostare in che misura il livello del volume del mix master viene abbassato e quanto in fretta
    ritorna al suo livello normale (si veda Operazione > Menù Utilità > Microphone).
29. Mic EQ (High, Low): girare queste manopole per incrementare o tagliare le frequenze alte e basse di
    entrambi i microfoni.
30. Uscite cuffie: collegare le cuffie a questi jack da 6,35 mm (1/4”) o da 3,5 mm (1/8”) per monitorare il
    segnale. Girare la manopola Headphone Level per controllarne il volume.
31. Headphone Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume delle cuffie.
32. Split Cue: quando questo interruttore è su On, l’audio delle cuffie sarà “suddiviso” in modo che tutti i
    canali inviati a cue vengano sommati a mono e inviati al canale cuffie di sinistra, e che il mix master
    venga sommato a mono e inviato al canale destro. Quando l’interruttore è su Off, il canale Cue e il mix
    master verranno “miscelati” insieme.
33. Cue Mix: girare questa manopola per regolare l’equilibrio tra l’uscita cue e l’uscita master mix a livello
    delle cuffie.
34. Display: questi display garantiscono un feedback immediato sui parametri degli effetti, sul tempo e
    molto altro. I display mostrano anche il menu Utilità, dove è possibile configurare le impostazioni
    hardware e modificare il comportamento delle funzioni in modo che corrispondano al proprio workflow
    preferito regolando il convogliamento del segnale audio, l’ordine del modulo effetti, i livelli di ingresso e
    di uscita e molto altro.
35. BPM FX On/Off: premere questo tasto per accendere e spegnere il modulo effetti BPM.
36. FX Amount: girare questa manopola per regolare la quantità di segnale di uscita dal modulo effetti
    BPM.
37. Instant: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare la modalità Instant FX per la fascetta FX touch
    strip.
38. FX Channel Assign: girare questa manopola per selezionare il canale cui il modulo effetti BPM
    applicherà i suoi effetti. Channel 1, 2, 3 o 4; X-Fader A o B (un lato o l’altro del crossfader); Mic
    (entrambi i segnali microfono); oppure Master (il master mix).
39. FX Select/Enter: girare questa manopola per selezionare un effetto. Quando ci si trova nel menù Utilità,
    girare questa manopola per selezionare un’opzione e premerla per confermare la scelta o per entrare in
    un sottomenù.
40. Back: premere questo tasto per tornare alla schermata precedente nel menù Utilità.
41. FX Cue: premere questo tasto per effettuare un’anteprima degli effetti BPM nel canale cue delle cuffie.
    Tuttavia, non è possibile effettuare un’anteprima di tutti gli effetti BPM.
42. FX Time/Paramter: girare questa manopola per selezionare la frequenza che verrà utilizzata dal
    modulo effetti BPM. Premere questa manopola per commutare tra la regolazione dell’intervallo come
    divisione di tempo e la frequenza in millisecondi. (Una luce corrispondente lungo la striscia FX touch si
    illumina a indicare la divisione di tempo corrente.) Questa manopola regolerà anche altri parametri FX
    quando disponibili.
43. FX Touch Strip: quando il tasto Instant è spento (disabilitato), toccare un’area di questa fascetta tattile
    per selezionare la divisione di tempo che verrà utilizzata dal modulo effetti BPM. Una luce
    corrispondente lungo la striscia si illumina a indicare la divisione di tempo corrente. Se la divisione di
    tempo corrente non è un valore di quantizzazione illustrato sulla fascetta (ad es. l’effetto BeatBreak),
    nessuna delle luci si illuminerà.
     Quando il tasto Instant è acceso (abilitato), toccare e tenere il dito sulla striscia per attivare gli effetti, quindi
     trascinare il dito verso l’alto o verso il basso per regolare la divisione di tempo dell’effetto.


50
44. Tap/-Auto: toccare questo tasto almeno 3 volte al tempo desiderato per stabilire la frequenza del
    modulo effetti BPM per il canale impostata dalla manopola FX Channel Assign (la frequenza del
    modulo per gli altri canali rimane immutata). Il tasto Tap sarà illuminato in maniera smorzata quando
    si utilizza un BPM inserito manualmente in questo modo.
     Tenere premuto questo tasto per 1 secondo per sincronizzare la frequenza del modulo effetti BPM con il
     segnale audio del canale impostato dalla manopola FX Channel Assign (la frequenza del modulo per gli
     altri canali rimane immutata). Quando si utilizza un BPM rilevato automaticamente in questo modo, il tasto
     Tap sarà illuminato e la scritta Auto comparirà accanto al BPM nel secondo display. Se si utilizza un lettore
     media compatibile di Denon DJ con Engine Connect, il lettore media controllerà il modulo effetti BPM e il
     logo Engine sarà illustrato nel secondo display.
45. FX Frequency: girare questa manopola per selezionare una banda di frequenza del segnale audio alla
    quale verranno applicati gli effetti BPM. Selezionare la posizione centrale (12:00) per applicare effetti
    all’intero spettro di frequenze.
46. Quantize/-Utility: premere questo tasto per quantizzare il BPM FX ai media player connessi alle porte
    Link.
     Premere questo tasto per entrare o uscire dal menù Utilità, che comparirà a display. Uscendo dal menù
     Utilità si salvano tutte le modifiche apportate.
47. MIDI Start/Stop: premere questo tasto per inviare un messaggio MIDI Start o MIDI Stop dalla porta
    USB o dall’uscita MIDI (si può utilizzare il menù Utilità per selezionarne una). Il tempo sarà quello della
    scelta della manopola FX Channel Assign. Se si cambia la scelta della manopola FX Channel Assign,
    tenere premuto questo tasto per inviare il nuovo tempo.
48. Engine Connect: quando le porte Link sono collegate a lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ,
    premere questo tasto per abilitare l’X1850 PRIME a ricevere informazioni su tempo e BPM (per
    sincronizzare i tempi degli effetti) e inviare dati su tracce e profilo utente tra i lettori media.
     Tenere premuto questo tasto per mostrare l’assegnazione di canale manuale sui display di media player
     compatibili.
49. Porte USB: servirsi di cavi USB standard per collegare computer a queste porte USB.



Pannello posteriore


                             1                 11
                     2                               10 10 10 10                          13
                                     8        9                                  12
                                                    15
                           4                    7          14
                                    5 6              16            3 3 3 3 3
1.   Ingresso di alimentazione: servirsi del cavo di alimentazione bloccante in dotazione per collegare
     questo ingresso ad una presa di alimentazione. Per rimuovere il cavo di alimentazione, premere verso il
     basso la linguetta gialla, quindi estrarre il cavo dall’ingresso. È anche possibile utilizzare un cavo di
     alimentazione IEC standard al posto del cavo di alimentazione ploccante in dotazione.
2.   Tasto di alimentazione: premere questo tasto per accendere e spegnere l’X1850 PRIME. Accendere
     l’X1850 PRIME Prime solo dopo aver collegato tutti i dispositivi di ingresso e prima di accendere
     amplificatori e casse. Spegnere amplificatori e casse prima di spegnere l’X1850 PRIME.
3.   Porte Link: servirsi di cavi di rete standard per collegare queste porte ai lettori media compatibile di
     Denon DJ e/o al computer. Ciascun lettore media collegato può utilizzare questi collegamenti per
     condividere informazioni su tempo e BPM con l’X1850 PRIME (per sincronizzare il tempo degli effetti)
     nonché i dati relativi alle tracce e al profilo utente con altre lettori media.
4.   Uscite Master (XLR bilanciate): servirsi di cavi XLR standard per collegare queste uscite ad altoparlanti
     o amplificatori. Servirsi della manopola Master sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del
     volume.



                                                                                                               51
5.   Uscite Master (RCA non bilanciate): servirsi di cavi RCA standard per collegare queste uscite a un
     altoparlante o amplificatore. Servirsi della manopola Master sul pannello superiore per controllare il
     livello del volume.
6.   Uscite di registrazione Record (RCA): servirsi di cavi RCA standard per collegare queste uscite a
     un’interfaccia di registrazione, a un mixer esterno o ad altri dispositivi. Servirsi del menù Utilità per
     selezionare se il mix inviato a queste uscite comprenderà o meno il segnale audio dei microfoni (si veda
     Operazione > Menù Utilità > Microphone).
7.   Uscite Booth (6,35 mm/1/4”, TRS): servirsi di cavi standard da 6,35 mm (1/4”) per collegare queste
     uscite a monitor booth o a un amplificatore booth. Servirsi della manopola Booth sul pannello superiore
     per controllare il livello del volume. servirsi del menù Utilità per selezionare se il mix inviato a queste
     uscite comprenderà o meno il segnale audio dei microfoni (si veda Operazione > Menù Utilità >
     Microphone).
8.   Uscite Send (6,35 mm/1/4”, TRS): collegare queste uscite agli ingressi di un modulo effetti esterno o di
     un altro dispositivo. Servirsi del menù
9.   Ingressi Receive (6,35 mm/1/4”, TRS): collegare questi ingressi alle uscite di un modulo effetti esterno
     o di un altro dispositivo. Servirsi del menù Utilità per impostare il livello di questo segnale audio (si veda
     Operazione > Menù Utilità > FX).
10. Ingressi Phono/Linea (RCA): servirsi di cavi standard RCA per collegare questi ingressi a livello di linea
    o a livello phono a una fonte audio esterna. Servirsi dei selettori di ingresso presenti sul pannello
    superiore per stabilire se il segnale proveniente dagli ingressi a livello di linea o a livello phono sarà
    inviato a ciascun canale o meno.
11. Terminale di messa a terra: se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono dotati di cavo di messa a terra,
    collegare quest’ultimo a questo terminale. Se si verifica un “ronzio” o un “brusio” basso, ciò può
    significare che i giradischi non sono messi a terra.
     Nota bene: alcuni giradischi hanno il cavo di messa a terra incorporato nel collegamento RCA e, di
     conseguenza, non è necessario collegare nulla al terminale di messa a terra.
12. Ingresso Mic 2 (6,35 mm/1/4”, TRS): servirsi di un cavo standard da 6,35 mm (1/4”) (non in dotazione)
    per collegare un microfono dinamico standard a questo ingresso. Servirsi della manopola Mic 2 Level
    sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del volume.
13. Uscita MIDI (DIN a 5 poli): servirsi di un cavo MIDI standard per collegare questa uscita all’ingresso
    MIDI di un dispositivo MIDI esterno opzionale. Si può utilizzare il tasto MIDI Send per inviare messaggi
    MIDI Start da questa uscita. Si può anche utilizzare il menù Utilità per abilitare o disabilitare questa
    connessione (si veda Operazione > Menù Utilità > System).
14. Digital In (RCA digitale): servirsi di cavi RCA digitali per collegare questi ingressi da 24 bit/96 KHz alle
    uscite digitali delle proprie lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ.
15. Digital Link In (RCA digitale): se si utilizza più di una unità X1850 PRIME, servirsi di un cavo RCA
    digitale per collegare questo ingresso all’uscita digitale di un altro X1850 PRIME.
16. Digital Out (RCA digitale): servirsi di un cavo RCA digitale per collegare questa uscita all’ingresso
    digitale di un’altra unità X1850 PRIME o di un’interfaccia esterna, di un mixer o di un altro dispositivo.
    Servirsi del menù Utilità per impostare il livello del segnale in uscita (si veda Operazione > Menù Utilità
    > Advanced Audio).




52
Operazione

Effetti

Modulo effetti BPM

Il modulo effetti incorporato consente di applicare qualsiasi tra i numerosi effetti a canali specifici basandosi
sul tempo corrente.

Per accendere o spegnere il modulo effetti BPM, premere BPM FX On/Off.

Per selezionare il canale cui il modulo effetti BPM applicherà i suoi effetti, girare la manopola FX
  Channel Assign. Le opzioni sono: Channel 1, 2, 3 o 4; X-Fader A o B (un lato o l’altro del crossfader);
  Mic (entrambi i segnali microfono); oppure Master (il master mix).
Per applicare o rimuovere l’effetto dal canale cue, premere FX Cue. Quando il tasto è acceso, gli effetti
  saranno applicati unicamente al canale cue delle cuffie.

Per selezionare un effetto, girare la manopola FX Select/Enter.
Questi sono gli effetti disponibili:
 •    Echo: questo effetto aggiunge eco al segnale originale. Usare la manopola FX Parameter per
      impostare il livello di feedback dell'effetto eco.
 •    Delay: questo effetto aggiunge istanze ripetute del segnale originale che decadono nel tempo.
 •    Hall Echo: questo effetto aggiunge una combinazione di riverbero ed eco. Usare la manopola FX
      Parameter per impostare il livello di decadimento dell'effetto eco.
 •    Ping Pong: questo è un effetto di ritardo stereo in cui la frequenza del ritardo stesso differisce tra i
      canali sinistro e destro.
 •    Auto Gate: questo effetto taglia il segnale originale ad una frequenza regolare.
 •    Flanger: questo effetto aggiunge una copia leggermente ritardata al segnale originale per creare un
      effetto pettine-filtro (spesso accostato al motore di un jet).
 •    Filter: questo effetto varia la frequenza di taglio del filtro ad un intervallo regolare.
 •    Phaser: questo effetto aggiunge una copia del segnale originale con la fase leggermente variata per
      creare un sottile effetto modulante.
 •    Bit Crush: questo effetto aggiunge un filtro a bassa velocità di bit. Usa la manopola FX Parameter
      per impostare Bit Average e Bit Depth per cambiare il suono dell'effetto.
 •    Reverb: questo effetto aggiunge riverbero al segnale originale. La quantità di ritardo dipende dal
      tempo. Usare la manopola FX Parameter per regolare il Decay del riverbero e premere la manopola
      FX Parameter mentre il riverbero è attivo per "congelare" il riverbero e uccidere l'audio del canale.
 •    Roll: questo effetto effettua il campionamento del segnale audio corrente e lo ripete a intervalli regolari
      basandosi sull’attuale divisione del tempo.
 •    RevRoll (roll inverso): questo effetto effettua il campionamento del segnale audio corrente e lo ripete
      all’indietro a intervalli regolari basandosi sull’attuale divisione del tempo.
 •    BeatBreak: questo effetto effettua il campionamento dei 4 battiti di ciascuna battuta del segnale
      originale e li risuona (nell’ambito della stessa battuta) secondo uno schema predefinito, creando un
      effetto di “stuttering”, “breakbeat”.
      Per selezionare il pattern da utilizzare, girare la manopola FX Time per selezionare Pattern 0–15,
         come illustrato nel secondo display. I 16 blocchi ( █ ) e/o linee ( __ ) al di sotto di esso indicano il
         ritmo del pattern corrente un po’ come il sequenziatore di una drum machine: un blocco
         rappresenta un colpo e una linea rappresenta una pausa.
      Esempi:
                                                               Indica un tocco su ogni beat.
                                                               Indica un tocco ogni ottava.
                                                               Indica un tocco a ogni sedicesimo (ogni nota del
                                                               pattern).
      Servirsi del menù Utilità per modificare i pattern (si veda Menù utilità > FX).


                                                                                                              53
 •    Scratch: questo effetto alterna tra la riproduzione normale e inversa di ciascun beat, creando un
      effetto di scratch del vinile.
 •    Pumper: questo effetto attenua o “abbassa” l’audio sul downbeat, come un compressore sidechain. I
      parametri disponibili sono:
         o Duck: imposta l’attenuazione del volume: da -2dB a -20dB.
         o Offset: imposta il tempo di offset dell’abbassamento in beat: -1/16, -1/8, -1/4 o -1/2.
 •    Echo Hold: questo effetto applica un eco che, quando la manopola FX Amount viene girata in senso
      orario verso il punto centrale, mantiene le ripetizioni sull’ultimo eco. Riportare la manopola FX Amount
      in senso antiorario oltre il punto centrale per rimuovere il mantenimento dell’eco (echo hold).
 •    SendRtn (send/return): questa opzione abilita le uscite send e gli ingressi di ricezione, consentendo di
      utilizzare effetti esterni sul segnali.

Tutti gli effetti BPM sono basati sul tempo, quindi il modulo effetti BPM offre numerosi modi per inserire o
individuare il tempo che utilizzerà.
      Per regolare la divisione di tempo del modulo effetti BPM, procedere in uno dei seguenti modi:
              • Assicurarsi che la divisione di tempo (__ Beat) sia selezionata nel display inferiore (in caso
                   contrario, premere la manopola FX Time), quindi girare la manopola FX Time per selezionare
                   un’altra divisione di tempo.
            •   Quando il tasto Instant è su off, toccare un’area della FX touch strip per selezionare una
                divisione di tempo. Una luce corrispondente lungo la striscia si illumina a indicare la divisione
                di tempo corrente.
      Per regolare la frequenza del modulo effetti BPM in millisecondi, assicurarsi che la frequenza in
        millisecondi (__ ms) sia selezionata nel display inferiore (in caso contrario, premere la manopola FX
        Time), quindi girare la manopola FX Time per regolarlo.

Per inserire un nuovo tempo, premere Tap almeno 3 volte al tempo desiderato. Così facendo si stabilisce
  la frequenza del modulo effetti BPM per il canale impostata dalla manopola FX Channel Assign (la
  frequenza del modulo per gli altri canali rimane immutata). Il tasto Tap sarà illuminato in maniera
  smorzata quando si utilizza un BPM inserito manualmente in questo modo.
Per individuare il tempo automaticamente, tenere premuto Tap/-Auto per 1 secondo. Così facendo si
  sincronizza la frequenza del modulo effetti BPM con il segnale audio del canale impostato dalla manopola
  FX Channel Assign (la frequenza del modulo per gli altri canali rimane immutata). Quando si utilizza un
  BPM rilevato automaticamente in questo modo, il tasto Tap sarà illuminato e la scritta Auto comparirà
  accanto al BPM nel secondo display.
  Nota bene: se si utilizza un lettore media compatibile di Denon DJ con Engine Connect, il lettore media
  controllerà il modulo effetti BPM e il logo Engine sarà illustrato nel secondo display.
Per regolare il tempo manualmente, tenere premuto Tap/-Auto, quindi girare la manopola FX Time per
  regolare il BPM in incrementi di 1. Tenendo premuto Tap/-Auto, premere e girare la manopola FX Time
  per regolare il BPM in incrementi di 0,1.
Per abilitare la quantizzazione FX, servirsi dell’impostazione FX Quantize in Menu Utilità > FX. Quando
  abilitato, il BPM FX si attiverà a partire da un beat o da un incremento di beat utilizzando la griglia del beat
  di un media player compatibile.

Si può cambiare facilmente la quantità di segnale FX per regolare l’equilibrio tra segnale “bagnato” (il
segnale di uscita del modulo effetti BPM) e il segnale “dry” (audio senza effetti applicati).
     Per regolare l’equilibrio tra i segnali “wet” e “dry”, girare la manopola FX Amount.
       Alternativamente, servirsi della fascetta FX touch strip in modalità Instant FX (si veda sotto).

Normalmente, si applicano effetti all’intero spettro di frequenza, ma l’X1850 PRIME consente anche di
applicarli a una banda di frequenza isolata del segnale audio (del canale selezionato).
      Per selezionare la banda di frequenza, girare la manopola FX Frequency. Selezionare la posizione
        centrale (12:00) per applicare effetti all’intero spettro di frequenze.

La modalità Instant FX consente di utilizzare la striscia FX touch per attivare l’effetto e regolare la sua
divisione di tempo contemporaneamente.
       Per abilitare o disabilitare la modalità Instant FX, premere Instant. Quando è abilitata, il tasto si illumina.
       Per attivare l’effetto, toccare e tenere il dito sulla FX touch strip, quindi trascinare il dito verso l’alto
         o verso il basso per regolare la divisione di tempo dell’effetto.

54
Sweep FX
Sweep FX consente di applicare uno di quattro effetti ai quattro canali e di applicare lo “sweep” utilizzando
le manopole Sweep FX. Si può applicare un solo effetto sweep alla volta.

Per attivare un effetto sweep, toccare uno dei tasti Sweep FX: Dub Echo, Noise, Wash Out o Gate.
  Quando è attivato, il tasto si illumina. È possibile abilitare solo uno di questi tasti alla volta.
Per disattivare un effetto sweep, toccare il tasto Sweep FX acceso. Alternativamente, premere un tasto
  Sweep FX diverso per attivarlo. In questo modo l’altro verrà disattivato.

Per tutti gli effetti sweep, la posizione centrale (ore “12”) della manopola Sweep FX bypassa l’effetto.
Girando la manopola Sweep FX in senso orario o antiorario da questa posizione si applica l’effetto e può
produrre diversi risultati in ciascuna direzione a seconda del tipo di effetto. Gli effetti sweep disponibili e le
rispettive funzioni sono i seguenti:
 •    Dub Echo: questo effetto aggiunge un breve eco. Girare una manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario
      per ridurre la lunghezza del ritardo e aumentare il feedback, oppure girarla in senso orario per
      aumentare la lunghezza del ritardo e del feedback.
 •    Noise: questo effetto aggiunge rumore al segnale. A partire dalla posizione centrale (ore 12), girare
      una manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario per aggiungere rumore bianco con un effetto gate
      basato sul tempo, oppure girarla in senso orario per aggiungere rumore bianco.
 •    Wash Out: crea un effetto di transizione. Girare una manopola Sweep FX nella sua posizione
      antioraria estrema (minimo) per applicare un eco di 1/2 beat che silenzierà anche il normale segnale
      audio del canale, oppure girarlo alla posizione estrema oraria (massima) per applicare un eco da 1
      beat.
 •    Gate: questo effetto applica un effetto gate basato sul tempo al segnale. A partire dalla posizione
      centrale (ore 12), girare una manopola Sweep FX in senso antiorario per applicare un effetto gate
      sincronizzato con il tempo del canale, oppure girarla in senso orario per applicare un effetto gate che
      attenua il segnale. Più la manopola è girata in senso antiorario, maggiore sarà l’attenuazione.



Menu Utilità
Il menù Utilità consente di personalizzare varie impostazioni dell’X1850 PRIME che influiscono sul
convogliamento del segnale audio, il modulo effetti, i livelli di ingresso e uscita e molto altro.

Per entrare o uscire dal menù Utility, tenere premuto Quantize/-Utility. Uscendo dal menù Utilità si
  salvano tutte le modifiche apportate.

Nel menù Utilità è possibile compiere tutte le seguenti operazioni:
 •    Per selezionare un’opzione, girare la manopola FX Select/Enter.
 •    Per confermare la scelta o entrare in un sottomenu, premere la manopola FX Select/Enter.
 •    Per tornare alla schermata precedente, premere Back.

Qui di seguito si trova la descrizione dei vari sottomenu del menù Utilità:

EQ
Queste impostazioni determinano come lavorano le manopole Channel EQ.
 •    Type: selezionare ISO per impostare l’intervallo delle manopole Channel EQ da -∞ a +6dB/+10dB (come
      indicato). Selezionare EQ per impostare l’intervallo delle manopole Channel EQ da -24dB a +6dB (per altri
      lettori che potrebbero necessitare di questo tipo di impostazione).
 •    High Cross Over: è la frequenza di crossover tra le manopole High e Mid EQ quando Type è
      impostato su ISO: 1000Hz–8000Hz (in incrementi variabili).
 •    Low Cross Over: è la frequenza di crossover tra le manopole Mid e Low EQ quando Type è
      impostato su ISO: 100Hz–800Hz (in incrementi variabili).
 •    Reset EQ Default: selezionare OK per far tornare le impostazioni di Channel EQ ai loro valori
      predefiniti, oppure selezionare Cancel per tornare al menù precedente.


                                                                                                               55
Filter
 •   Resonance: si tratta della risonanza dei filtri sui Canali 1–4 (vale a dire in che misura le frequenze
     appena al di là della frequenza di taglio possono passare attraverso il filtro). 0 è un’impostazione flat
     (le frequenze appena al di là della frequenza di taglio non si sentiranno affatto), mentre 15 implica una
     risonanza elevata (la frequenza di taglio non è così “severa” e sarà possibile udire alcune frequenze
     adiacenti).
 •   Extreme Type: questa impostazione determina l’effetto dei filtri Sweep alle estremità bassa e alta
     estreme. Selezionare Kill affinché gli estremi del filtro terminino in silenzio, oppure selezionare Bleed
     per fare in modo che l’estremità finale del filtro venga riprodotta.


Headphones
 •   Attenuation: è il livello del guadagno dell’uscita cuffie. Da -10dB a +10dB.
 •   Split Cue Output: imposta quale lato del segnale stereo riproduce il programma Cue sulle cuffie, Left
     o Right.

Microphone
Queste impostazioni influiscono sui microfoni.
 •   Attenuation: è il livello del guadagno degli ingressi microfono: da -15dB a 0dB.
 •   Gate Threshold: questa impostazione modifica la quantità di audio richiesta per impegnare il segnale
     mic. Diversi tipi di microfono possono richiedere che venga regolata per il miglior utilizzo: da -40dB a -
     79dB.
 •   Talk Over Level: queste impostazioni determinano in che misura il livello del volume master mix è
     abbassato quando la funzione “talkover” del microfono è attivata: da -40dB a -20dB.
 •   Talk Over Resume: quando si utilizza la funzione “talkover”, il volume del master mix tornerà al suo
     livello normale quando l’ingresso del microfono non individua alcun segnale di ingresso. Questa
     impostazione determina se la transizione avrà luogo in maniera moderata (Normal) o rapida (Fast).
 •   EQ High: questa è la banda di frequenza che sarà influenzata dalla manopola High Mic EQ: 1,000Hz–
     10,000Hz (in incrementi variabili).
 •   EQ Low: questa è la banda di frequenza che sarà influenzata dalla manopola Low Mic EQ: 100Hz–
     900Hz (in incrementi variabili).
 •   Booth Receive: selezionare On per fare in modo che il segnale del microfono sia inviato alle uscite
     booth. Selezionare Off per rimuovere il segnale del microfono dalle uscite booth.
 •   Headphone Receive: selezionare On per consentire che il segnale microfono sia inviato alle cuffie.
     Selezionare Off per rimuovere il segnale del microfono dalle cuffie.
 •   Reset Mic Default: selezionare OK per far tornare le impostazioni Mic ai loro valori predefiniti, oppure
     selezionare Cancel per tornare al menù precedente.

FX
Queste impostazioni influenzano l’FX sull’X1850 PRIME.
 •   FX Return: è il livello di unità per le uscite send e gli ingressi di ricezione. -10dB–+10dB. A seconda
     degli effetti esterni utilizzati, può essere necessario regolare questa impostazione.
 •   Beat Break Edit: questo menù consente di selezionare, modificare e memorizzare i pattern per
     l’effetto Beat Break. Si veda Effetti > Modulo effetti BPM per maggiori informazioni sul
     funzionamento di questo effetto.
     Per modificare un pattern:
     1. Girare la manopola FX Select/Enter per selezionare un pattern (1–16), e quindi premerla.
     2. Girare la manopola FX Select/Enter per selezionare uno dei 12 sedicesimi nel pattern. Non è
           possibile modificare i quattro beat principali del pattern; questi suoneranno sempre perché
           contengono l’audio campionato.
           Premere la manopola FX Select/Enter per cambiare il beat da un “colpo”/”battuta” ( █ ) a una
           pausa ( __ ) o viceversa.
           Ripetere questo passaggio, se desiderato.
     3. Premere Back per tornare alla schermata precedente.



56
 •   FX List Customize: servirsi di questa schermata per personalizzare l’ordine degli effetti. Girare la
     manopola FX Select/Enter per selezionare un effetto dell’elenco di quelli disponibili presenti sulla sinistra,
     quindi premere la manopola per aggiungere l’effetto al nuovo ordine sul lato destro. Ripetere questo
     passaggio per ciascun effetto, oppure selezionare -Cancel- per tornare alla schermata precedente. Dopo
     aver fatto questo per tutti gli effetti, selezionare -End- per salvare la propria lista personalizzata.
 •   BPM FX On Color: questa impostazione stabilisce il colore del tasto BPM FX On/Off quando lampeggia:
     red, spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange o purple.
 •   Noise Level: questa impostazione determina il livello del rumore quando si utilizza il Noise Sweep FX:
     da -20dB a +15dB.
 •   FX Quantize: questa impostazione determina la quantità di tempo che FX attenderà prima di
     accendersi dopo l’attivazione del tasto BPM FX: 1, 1/2, 1/4, o 1/8 beat. Così facendo si manterrà FX
     a tempo con la griglia del beat dei media player connessi.
 •   FX Limiter: accendere questa impostazione (On) per limitare il volume dell’uscita FX in modo che
     equivalga all’ingresso proveniente dal canale. Selezionare Off per non applicare alcun limitatore all’FX.


Advanced Audio
Questa impostazione determina il funzionamento digitale del mixer e altre funzioni avanzate.
 •   Sampling Rate: è la frequenza di campionamento del segnale audio USB: 44.1kHz, 48kHz, o 96kHz.
 •   Master Out Level: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume delle uscite master: da
     -15dB a 0dB.
 •   Master Limiter: applica un limitatore all’uscita master: da 20dB a 0dB. Selezionare Off per non
     applicare alcun limitatore all’uscita master.
 •   Booth Settings: questa impostazione determina il convogliamento dell’audio booth:
       o   Booth Pan: consente il panning dell’audio booth unitamente all’audio master: Disable o Enable.
       o   Booth Out Level: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume delle uscite booth: da
           0dB a -15dB.
 •   USB Audio: queste impostazioni determinano il convogliamento e i livelli di audio USB.
       o   CH1–4/Master/Cue Assign: queste impostazioni determinano quali canali audio USB (1/2–9/10)
           riceveranno il segnale audio dai Canali 1–4 (CH1–CH4) e il master mix (Master).
       o   Output Level: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume del master mix inviato al
           computer tramite un collegamento USB. da -20dB a -20dB.
       o   Ch Input Level: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume dei segnali audio inviati
           ai Canali 1–4 dal computer tramite un collegamento USB. da -20dB a -20dB.
       o    Modalità Broadcast: quando impostata su On, questa opzione permette di inviare il segnale
            master al computer tramite i canali audio USB 1–2 per l’uso con software di broadcasting.
            Impostarlo su Off per disattivare la modalità di trasmissione Broadcast.
            Nota bene: quando la modalità Broadcast è attivata, comparirà un messaggio a indicare che il
            DVS sul canale 1 sarà disattivato. Premere Invio per continuare.
 •   DVS Setup: per i Canali 1–4 (CH1–CH4), selezionare il livello di ingresso che verrà utilizzato da
     ciascuno di essi quando il relativo selettore di ingressi è impostato su DVS. Selezionare Phono per
     utilizzare il controllo dei dischi in vinile oppure Line per utilizzare il controllo dei CD.
 •   Digital Settings:
       o   Digital Out: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume del segnale audio inviato
           dall’uscita digitale. da -20dB a -20dB.
       o   Digital Link: selezionare On per sommare il segnale in uscita prima della manopola Master e
           della manopola Booth, che possono essere utilizzate per controllare il livello di uscita.
           Selezionare Off per sommare il segnale in uscita dopo la manopola Master e la manopola
           Booth, che non avranno alcun effetto sul livello di uscita.
       o   Link Level: si tratta di uno sfasamento rispetto al livello del volume del segnale audio inviato
           all’ingresso Digital Link. da -20dB a -20dB.
 •   Cross Fader Cut: questa impostazione determina in che misura occorre spostare il crossfader da
     ciascun lato (Fader Cut A o B) affinché inizi a influenzare il segnale audio: -2,0 mm a 1,0 mm



                                                                                                                57
System (sistema)
Queste impostazioni determinano il funzionamento generale.
 •   Info: Queste schermate contengono informazioni sull’attuale versione del firmware e informazioni di
     rete.
      o    Version: si tratta della versione corrente del firmware dell’X1850 PRIME.
      o    IP Address: l’indirizzo IP che l’X1850 PRIME sta utilizzando.
      o    MAC Address: l’indirizzo MAC che l’X1850 PRIME sta utilizzando.
 •   Display:
      o    Display Brightness: questa impostazione modifica la luminosità del display OLED: Low, Med, o
           High.
      o    LED Brightness: questa impostazione modifica la luminosità di tutti i LED sulla superficie di
           controllo: Low, Med, o High.
 •   Engine Connect: selezionare Auto per abilitare l’X1850 PRIME a ricevere automaticamente
     informazioni su tempo e BPM (per sincronizzare i tempi degli effetti) dai lettori media compatibile
     collegate alle sue porte Link e a inviare dati relativi alle tracce e ai profili utente tra di esse. L’X1850
     PRIME individuerà e configurerà automaticamente ciascun lettore media una volta collegate le
     rispettive porte Link. Selezionare Manual per disattivare il collegamento automatico e attivare questa
     funzione solo manualmente tenendo premuto il tasto Engine Connect fino a quando la schermata
     Channel Assignment non compare sui lettori media. È quindi possibile assegnare ciascuno strato del
     lettore media a un canale specifico.
 •   Cue Settings:
      o    Cue Solo Mode: selezionare On per utilizzare i tasti Channel Cue come tasti “assolo” (la
           pressione di un tasto silenzierà tutti gli altri canali). Selezionare Off per utilizzarli come normali
           tasti cue (la pressione di uno di essi invierà il relativo segnale al canale cue).
      o    Cue 1–4 Color: questa impostazione stabilisce il colore dei tasti Cue per ciascun canale: red,
           spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange o purple.
      o    Reset Cue Defaults: selezionare OK per far tornare le impostazioni Cue ai loro valori predefiniti,
           oppure selezionare Cancel per tornare al menù precedente.
 •   Contour Lock: quando impostata su On, questa impostazione blocca il Crossfader Contour sulla
     posizione della manopola corrente, in modo che non cambi se viene spostata la manopola. Impostare
     su Off per disabilitare il blocco.
 •   Through Position Lock: quando impostata su On, questa impostazione blocca gli interruttori
     Crossfader Assign sulla posizione Thru, in modo che non cambi se viene spostato l’interruttore.
     Impostare su Off per disabilitare il blocco.
 •   Network Settings:
      o    Refresh IP Address: selezionare OK per rinnovare l’indirizzo IP, ristabilendo il collegamento tra
           l’X1850 PRIME e qualsiasi lettori media compatibile di Denon DJ collegata alle porte Link.
           Selezionare Cancel per tornare alla schermata precedente.
 •   MIDI: Queste sono impostazioni MIDI che determinano come vengono utilizzate le connessioni MIDI.
      o    Clock Send: queste impostazioni determinano se l’X1850 PRIME invierà messaggi MIDI Clock
           su ciascuna di tali connessioni o meno. Per ciascuna opzione, selezionare On per abilitare la
           trasmissione oppure Off per disabilitarla.
              USB: si applica a entrambe le porte USB 1 e 2. Se si utilizza l’X1850 PRIME per
                 controllare software, impostare questo comando su On.
              5pin: si applica all’uscita MIDI.
      o    Active Send: queste impostazioni determinano se l’X1850 PRIME invierà messaggi MIDI normali
           su ciascuna di tali connessioni o meno. Per ciascuna opzione, selezionare On per abilitare la
           trasmissione oppure Off per disabilitarla.
              USB: si applica a entrambe le porte USB 1 e 2. Se si utilizza l’X1850 PRIME per
                 controllare software, impostare questo comando su On.
              5pin: si applica all’uscita MIDI.
 •   Factory Reset: selezionare OK per riportare l’X1850 PRIME ai valori di fabbrica predefiniti (attendere
     alcuni secondi dopo aver selezionato questa opzione prima di riprendere l’uso normale). Selezionare
     Cancel per tornare alla schermata precedente.

58
Benutzerhandbuch (Deutsch)
Einführung
Vielen Dank für den Kauf des X1850 PRIME. Wir von Denon DJ wissen, wie wichtig Ihnen die Musik ist.
Darum entwerfen wir unsere Geräte stets nur mit einem einzigen Ziel vor Augen: Ihre Performance so gut
wie möglich zu unterstützen. Wir fühlen uns geehrt und freuen uns, Teil Ihrer musikalischen und kreativen
DJ-Karriere zu sein!

Features:
 •   4-Kanal-Digitalmixer mit (4) schaltbaren Phono/Line-Kanälen
 •   BPM Effekte-Bereich mit geregelter Frequenzband-Isolation
 •   Zwei USB-Audioverbindungen für Software und Audiogeräte
 •   Eigene Sweep- und BPM-Effekte-Regler - qualitativ hochwertige Effekte für jeden Kanal mit einfachem
     ein-Kopf-Bedienung
 •   Spezielle Sweep- und BPM-FX-Regler: Hochwertige Effekte, einschließlich neuer Pumper- und Echo
     Hold-Effekte, für jeden Kanal mit einem einzigen Regler
 •   FX-Quantisierung zur FX-Aktivierung
 •   Ausdrucksstarker EQ - wählen Sie Klassik- oder Isolationsmodi und eine anpassbare Filterresonanz-
     steuerung
 •   Engine Connect-Protokoll für an das Beatgrid angepasste Effekte
 •   Ausdrucksstarker Denon DJ Flex-Fader-Crossfader
 •   Schließen Sie MIDI-basierte Effekte und Instrumente an
 •   24-Bit/96 kHz Digitalausgang für kompromisslose Audioqualität
 •   Gut lesbarer OLED-Bildschirm für präzise, menügeführte Änderungen
 •   (4) digitale Eingänge für hochauflösendes Audio-Mixing
 •   LAN-Hub für bis zu vier Player oder Zubehör
 •   Sperrender IEC-Stromanschluss

Lieferumfang
X1850 PRIME            Benutzerhandbuch
USB-Kabel              Sicherheitshinweise und Garantieinformationen
Netzkabel

Kundendienst
Für die neuesten Informationen zu diesem Produkt (Dokumentation, technische Daten, Systemanforderungen,
Informationen zur Kompatibilität etc.) besuchen Sie bitte: denondj.com.
Für zusätzlichen Produkt-Support besuchen Sie denondj.com/support.

Produktregistrierung

Ihr Produkt enthält möglicherweise exklusive Software und/oder Werbeaktionen, auf die Sie nur zugreifen
können, wenn Sie Ihr neues Produkt auf der Denon DJ-Website registrieren.
Um die Berechtigung zu prüfen und auf die verfügbaren Inhalte zuzugreifen, registrieren Sie Ihr Produkt bitte
anhand der folgenden Anweisungen:
1. Besuchen Sie denondj.com.
2. Klicken Sie auf Sign In (Anmelden), um auf Ihr vorhandenes Konto zuzugreifen oder ein neues Konto zu
    erstellen.
3. Klicken Sie nach der Anmeldung auf My Registered Products (Meine registrierten Produkte).
4. Geben Sie die Produktseriennummer in das Feld ein und klicken Sie auf Register Product (Produkt
    registrieren).
5. Nach erfolgreicher Registrierung werden alle zutreffenden Software-Downloads, exklusiven Inhalte und
    Werbeangebote in Ihrem Konto angezeigt.

                                                                                                          59
Setup
1. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass alle Ihre Geräte ausgeschaltet oder all ihre Lautstärkepegel auf ihren
   Minimalpositionen sind.
2. Verbinden Sie die Audioausgänge Ihres Media Players mit den Eingängen des X1850 PRIME.
3. Wenn Sie kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern verwenden, verbinden Sie deren Link-Ports mit den
   Link-Ports des X1850 PRIME Mischpultes nach einem der folgenden Schaltplanbeispiele.
4. Schließen Sie alle anderen Geräte (Plattenspieler, Kopfhörer, Endstufen, Lautsprecher usw.) an die
   jeweiligen Ein- und Ausgänge des X1850 PRIME an.
5. Schließen Sie alle Geräte an Stromquellen an.
Wenn Sie eine Sitzung starten, schalten Sie (1) Ihre Media Players und andere Eingangsquellen, (2) das
X1850 PRIME und dann (3) die Ausgabegeräte ein.
Wenn Sie eine Sitzung beenden, schalten Sie (1) die Ausgabegeräte, (2) das X1850 PRIME und dann (3) Ihre
Media Players und andere Eingangsquellen aus.


Anschlüssediagramme

Artikel, die unter Einführung > Lieferumfang aufgeführt sind, sind separat erhältlich.


Beispiel 1

      Denon DJ                                                                Denon DJ
     Mediaplayer                                                             Mediaplayer




        Steckdose                                                  Steckdose


Beispiel 2




                                 Denon DJ                           Denon DJ
                                Mediaplayern                       Mediaplayern
       Steckdose                                                                           Steckdose




       Steckdose                                                                           Steckdose




60
Netzwerk

Sie können das X1850 PRIME verwenden, um mehrere kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern miteinander zu
vernetzen, so dass sie nahtlos Timing- und BPM-Informationen (zur Synchronisation von Effekttempos) mit
dem X1850 PRIME sowie Track- und Benutzerprofildaten mit anderen Mediaplayern teilen können.
Diese Funktion bietet einige Vorteile bei Auftritten. Wenn Sie zum Beispiel vier kompatiblen Denon DJ
Mediaplayern verwenden, können Sie mit einem von ihnen alle Tracks auf allen Geräten (USB-Laufwerke
oder SD-Karten) durchsuchen, die mit einer beliebigen Mediaplayern verbunden sind. Sie können dann all
diese Tracks sofort abspielen, ohne sich von einem Player zum anderen bewegen zu müssen.

Um netzwerkkompatible Denon DJ Media-Player miteinander zu vernetzen, verwenden Sie die
 mitgelieferten Netzwerkkabel, um jeden ihrer Link-Ports mit einem Link-Port (1–4) auf der Rückseite des
 X1850 PRIME zu verbinden.
Das Network (Media Status)-Licht auf jedem Media-Player schaltet sich ein, wenn es ordnungsgemäß an
ein Netzwerk angeschlossen ist.

Standardmäßig erkennt und konfiguriert X1850 PRIME jeden kompatiblen Denon DJ Media Player
automatisch, sobald Sie seine Link-Ports verbinden. Der Link-Port am X1850 PRIME bestimmt, welche
Kanäle der Media Player verwendet. Siehe folgende Szenarien:
Sie können auch jede Media Player-Layer einem bestimmten Kanal zuweisen, indem Sie die Engine
Connect -Einstellung im Optionsmenü des X1850 PRIME ändern. Weitere Informationen hierzu finden Sie
im Benutzerhandbuch Ihres Media-Players.


    Link-Port 1                                           Link-Port 2




                        Layer Layer                                           Layer Layer
                          A     B                                               B     A




    Link-Port 3                                           Link-Port 4




                                      Layer Layer                                           Layer Layer
                                        A     B                                               B     A




                                                                                                     61
Funktionen
Oberseite

                                                                      23
                                 2        2        2        2
                      25         1        1        1        1        22         49
                      26              3        3        3        3 24      46 47 48
                            27
                      26              4        4        4        4
                            28 5          5        5        5        21 21      34
                      29              4        4        4        4

                      29              4        4        4        4         40 39 41
                       9
                                 8        8        8        8        20      38
                      11                                                   42
                                 10       10       10       10       19              43
                      32         7        7        7        7        18
                                                                           44
                                 12       12       12       12
                      33                                             17
                                                                           45
                      31
                                      6        6        6        6 16
                                                                           37
                      30         13       13       13       13
                      30                           14                      35        36
                                     15                      15

1.   Input Select: Drehen Sie diese Regler, um die gewünschte Audioquelle für jeden Kanal auszuwählen:
      •   Digital: Wenn diese Option ausgewählt ist, gelten die digitalen Eingänge als Audioquelle
      •   Line: Wenn diese Option ausgewählt ist, gelten die Line-Eingänge als Audioquelle
      •   Phono: Wenn diese Option ausgewählt ist, gelten die Phono-Eingänge als Audioquelle
      •     USB: Wenn diese Option ausgewählt ist, ist die Audioquelle ein Computer, der an einen USB-
            Anschluss angeschlossen ist
       • DVS: Wenn diese Option ausgewählt ist, gilt als Audioquelle ein Computer, der an einen USB-
            Anschluss angeschlossen ist, während Control Vinyl mit einem digitalen Vinylsystem verwendet
            wird
2.   USB 1/2: Wenn der Input Select-Regler auf USB eingestellt ist, verwenden Sie diese Schalter, um USB
     Port 1 oder USB Port 2 als Quelle auszuwählen. Wenn ein Computer mit diesem Anschluss verbunden
     ist, steuert der Kanal den entsprechenden Kanal in Ihrer Software.
3.   Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die jeweiligen Pegel des Audiokanalsignals vor dem Fader und
     dem EQ (Pre Fader, Pre EQ) einzustellen.
4.   EQ (High, Mid, Low): Drehen Sie diese Regler, um die Höhen, Mitten und Bassfrequenzen des
     jeweiligen Kanals anzuheben oder abzusenken. Im Optionsmenü können Sie den EQ-Typ einstellen, der
     die minimalen (Cut) und maximalen (Boost) Werte bestimmt (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > EQ).
5.   Kanalpegelanzeigen: Diese LEDs zeigen den Audiosignalpegel vor dem Fader (Pre Fader) für jeden
     Kanal an.
6.   Kanal-Fader: Verwenden Sie diese Fader, um die Lautstärke jedes Kanals einzustellen.
7.   Channel Cue: Drücken Sie diese Tasten, um das Pre-Fader-Signal jedes Kanals an den Cue-Kanal
     (Cue-Bus) des Kopfhörers zu senden. Drücken Sie mehr als eine dieser Tasten gleichzeitig, um die
     Signale ihrer Kanäle gleichzeitig an den Cue-Kanal zu senden.

62
8.  Filter Knob: Drehen Sie diese Regler, um den auf jeden Kanal angewendeten Filter einzustellen. Drehen
    Sie den Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Tiefpassfilter anzuwenden. Drehen Sie den Regler
    im Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Hochpassfilter anzuwenden.
9. Filter-Taste: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um die Filter (die über die Filter-Regler gesteuert werden) auf
    allen Kanälen zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren.
10. Sweep FX-Regler: Drehen Sie diese Regler, um die Balance zwischen dem „wet“ Signal (dem
    Ausgangssignal des Sweep-Effekts) und dem „dry“ Signal (Audiosignal ohne Sweepeffekte)
    einzustellen. Wählen Sie den Regler in die Mittenposition (12 Uhr), um ein komplett unbearbeitetes
    Signal („dry“) auszuwählen. Es finden unterschiedliche Effekte von der Mittelposition einmal im
    Uhrzeigersinn und einmal gegen den Uhrzeigersinn statt. Näheres erfahren Sie unter dem Punkt Sweep
    FX.
11. Sweep FX-Taste: Drücken Sie eine dieser Tasten, um einen Effekt zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren,
    den Sie mit den Sweep FX-Reglern steuern können. Es kann jeweils nur eine dieser Tasten aktiviert
    werden.
      • Dub Echo: Dieser Effekt ist ein kurzes Echo. Ausgehend von der 12-Uhr-Position drehen Sie
           einen Sweep FX-Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um die Verzögerungszeit zu verkürzen und die
           Rückkopplung zu erhöhen oder drehen ihn im Uhrzeigersinn, um die Länge der Verzögerung
           sowie die Rückkopplung zu erhöhen.
      • Noise: Dieser Effekt fügt dem Signal ein Rauschen hinzu. Ausgehend von der mittleren Position
           (12:00) drehen Sie einen Sweep FX-Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um weißes Rauschen mit
           einem zeitbasierten Gate-Effekt hinzuzufügen, der mit dem Tempo des Kanals synchronisiert ist,
           oder drehen Sie ihn im Uhrzeigersinn, um weißes Rauschen hinzuzufügen.
      • Wash Out: Dies erzeugt einen Übergangseffekt. Drehen Sie einen Sweep FX-Regler auf die
           Position ganz links (Minimalposition), um ein 1/2-Beat-Echo anzuwenden, das auch das normale
           Audiosignal des Kanals stumm schaltet oder drehen Sie ihn auf die Position ganz rechts, um ein
           1-Beat Echo anzuwenden.
      • Gate: Dieser Effekt wendet einen zeitbasierten Gate-Effekt auf das Signal an. Beginnen Sie bei
           der 12-Uhr-Position und drehen Sie den Sweep FX-Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen
           Gate-Effekt zu verwenden, der mit dem Tempo des Kanals synchronisiert ist oder drehen Sie den
           Regler im Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Gate-Effekt anzuwenden, der das Signal dämpft. Je weiter der
           Regler im Uhrzeigersinn gedreht wird, desto stärker ist die Dämpfung.
12. BPM FX-Anzeigen: Diese Anzeigen leuchten auf, um anzuzeigen, ob ein Kanal ausgewählt ist und vom
    BPM-Effektmodul beeinflusst wird, wenn der FX Channel Assign -Regler auf Channel 1, 2, 3 oder 4; X-
    Fader A oder B (wenn der Kanal der aktiven Seite zugewiesen ist) bzw. Master (alle Kanäle) gestellt ist.
13. Crossfader-Zuweisen: Sendet die Audiospuren, die am entsprechenden Kanal wiedergegeben
    werden, an jeweils eine Seite des Crossfaders - A (links) oder B (rechts) - oder überbrückt den
    Crossfader und sendet das Audiosignal direkt zum Programm-Mix Thru (Mitte).
14. Crossfader: Verwenden Sie diesen Crossfader, um die aktiven Decks zu mischen.
15. Crossfader-Anzeigen: Diese Anzeigen leuchten, wenn eine Seite des Crossfaders ausgewählt und
    vom Effektmodul beeinflusst wird (wenn der FX Channel Assign-Regler auf X-Fader A oder B
    eingestellt ist).
16. X Fader Contour: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Kurve des Crossfaders anzupassen. Drehen Sie
    den Regler nach links für sanfte Übergänge (Mixing) oder nach rechts für abruptes Überblenden
    (Scratching). Die Mittelposition ist eine typische Einstellung für Club-Performances.
17. Ch Fader Contour: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Pegelkurve der Kanalfader einzustellen. Drehen
    Sie den Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um die Lautstärke "später" zu erhöhen (näher zum oberen
    Fader-Bereich). Drehen Sie ihn im Uhrzeigersinn, um die Lautstärke "früher" zu erhöhen (fast
    unmittelbar nachdem Sie den Fader aus seiner Minimalposition bewegt haben). Die Mittelstellung ist
    eine lineare Lautstärkezunahme.
18. X Fader Start: Verwenden Sie diesen Schalter, um den Crossfader-Start zu aktivieren oder zu
    deaktivieren. Wenn diese Option aktiviert ist, können Sie die kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern, die
    jeweils einer Crossfader-Seite zugewiesen sind, automatisch starten, indem Sie den Crossfader zu
    dieser Seite bewegen.
19. Channel Fader Start: Verwenden Sie diesen Schalter, um den Channel Fader Start zu aktivieren oder
    zu deaktivieren. Wenn diese Option aktiviert ist, können Sie die kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern,
    die an jeden Kanal angeschlossen sind, automatisch starten, sobald der Kanal-Fader nach oben
    bewegt wird.
20. Booth: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke der Booth-Ausgänge einzustellen.
21. Master-Pegelanzeigen: Diese LEDs zeigen den Audiosignalpegel des (aus den Master-Ausgängen
    gesendeten) Master-Mix an.

                                                                                                         63
22. Master: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke der Master-Ausgänge einzustellen.
23. Stereo/Mono-Wahlschalter: Verwenden Sie diesen Schalter, um die Kanalkonfiguration der Master-
    Ausgänge einzustellen: Stereo (Binaurales Audiosignal mit separatem linken und rechten Kanal) oder
    Mono (summiertes monaurales Audiosignal des linken und rechten Kanals).
24. Pan: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke der Masterausgänge im Stereofeld einzustellen.
25. Mic 1-Eingang: Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches XLR-Kabel oder 6,35 mm Kabel (nicht im
    Lieferumfang enthalten), um ein standardmäßiges dynamisches Mikrofon an diesen Eingang anzuschließen
26. Mic 1/2 Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke der entsprechenden Mikrofon-Eingänge
    einzustellen. Die Leuchte neben jedem Regler zeigt den aktuellen Signalpegel durch ihre Farben an:
    grün (normal/optimal), orange (mittlerer Pegel) oder rot (Maximum/Peak).
27. Mic On/Off: Drücken Sie diese Tasten, um das entsprechende Mikrofon zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren.
28. Talk Over: Drücken Sie diese Taste zum Aktivieren/Deaktivieren der „Talkover“-Funktion, die automatisch
    die Lautstärke des Master-Mix absenkt, wenn Sie in das Mikrofon sprechen. Mit Hilfe des Optionsmenüs
    können Sie einstellen, wie stark die Mastermix-Lautstärke abgesenkt wird und wie schnell diese danach
    wieder auf ihren normalen Pegel zurückkehrt (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > Microphone).
29. Mic EQ (High, Low): Drehen Sie diese Regler, um die hohen und niedrigen Frequenzen für die beiden
    Mikrofone anzuheben oder abzusenken.
30. Kopfhörerausgänge: Stecken Sie einen Kopfhörer in diese 6,35 mm oder 3,5 mm Buchsen für das
    Monitoring des Signals. Drehen Sie den Kopfhörer-Lautstärkeregler, um die Lautstärke zu regeln.
31. Kopfhörer-Pegel: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgangslautstärke der Kopfhörer ein.
32. Split Cue: Wenn dieser Schalter auf die Position On gebracht wird, wird das Kopfhörersignal
    „aufgeteilt“, so dass alle Kanäle, die an den Cue-Kanal gesendet werden, auf Mono summiert und an
    den linken Kopfhörerkanal gesendet werden und der Master-Mix auf Mono summiert und an den
    rechten Kanal gesendet wird. Wenn sich der Schalter in der Position Aus befindet, wird der Cue-Kanal
    und Master-Mix „zusammengemischt“.
33. Cue Mix: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Balance zwischen dem Cue-Ausgang und dem Master Mix-
    Ausgang im Kopfhörer einzustellen.
34. Anzeigen: Diese Displays bieten sofortiges Feedback zu Effektparametern, Tempo und vielem mehr. In
    den Anzeigen wird auch das Optionsmenü angezeigt, in dem Sie Hardwareeinstellungen konfigurieren
    und das Funktionsverhalten an Ihren bevorzugten Workflow anpassen können, indem Sie das
    Audiosignal-Routing, die Reihenfolge der Effektmodule, die Eingangs- und Ausgangspegel usw.
    anpassen.
35. BPM FX On/Off: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das BPM-Effektmodul ein- oder auszuschalten.
36. FX Amount: Drehen Sie diesen Knopf, um die Stärke des Ausgangssignals vom BPM-Effektmodul
    einzustellen.
37. Instant: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Instant FX-Modus für den FX-Touch-Strip zu aktivieren oder
    zu deaktivieren.
38. FX Channel Assign: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den Kanal auszuwählen, auf den das BPM-
    Effektmodul seine Effekte anwendet: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A oder B (beide Seiten des
    Crossfaders); Mic (beide Mikrofonsignale); oder Master (der Master-Mix).
39. FX Select/Enter: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um einen Effekt auszuwählen. Im Optionsmenü drehen Sie
    diesen Regler, um eine Option auszuwählen und drücken Sie ihn, um Ihre Auswahl zu bestätigen oder
    ein Untermenü aufzurufen.
40. Back: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm im Optionsmenü zurückzukehren.
41. FX Cue: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um die BPM-Effekte im Cue-Kanal des Kopfhörers vorzuhören. Nicht
    alle BPM-Effekte können vorgehört werden.
42. FX Time/Parameter: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Rate einzustellen, die das BPM-Effekt-Modul
    verwenden soll. Drücken Sie den Regler, um zwischen der Ratenanpassung als Zeitteilung und der
    Ratenanpassung in Millisekunden umzuschalten. Ein entsprechendes Licht entlang des FX-Touch-Strip
    leuchtet auf, um die aktuelle Zeitteilung anzuzeigen. Dieser Regler passt auch andere FX-Parameter an,
    sofern verfügbar.
43. FX Touch Strip: Wenn die Instant-Taste ausgeschaltet (deaktiviert) ist, tippen Sie auf einen Bereich auf
    diesem berührungssensitiven Streifen, um die Zeitteilung auszuwählen, die das BPM-Effektmodul
    verwenden soll. Ein entsprechendes Licht entlang des FX-Touch-Strip leuchtet auf, um die aktuelle
    Zeitteilung anzuzeigen. Wenn die aktuelle Zeitteilung kein auf dem Streifen angezeigter Quantisierungswert
    ist (z. B. ein BeatBreak-Effekt), leuchtet kein Licht auf.
    Wenn die Instant-Taste eingeschaltet (aktiviert) ist, halten Sie den Finger auf den Streifen, um die Effekte zu
    aktivieren und bewegen den Finger dann nach oben oder unten, um die Zeitteilung des Effekts anzupassen.

64
44. Tap/-Auto: Tippen Sie mindestens dreimal im gewünschten Tempo auf diese Taste, um die Rate des
    BPM-Effektmoduls für den mit dem FX Channel Assign festgelegten Kanal einzustellen (die Modulrate
    für andere Kanäle bleibt unverändert). Die Tap-Schaltfläche leuchtet schwach, wenn Sie einen manuell
    auf diese Weise eingegebenen BPM-Wert verwenden.
     Halten Sie die Taste 1 Sekunde lang gedrückt, um die Rate des BPM-Effektmoduls mit dem Audiosignal
     des mit dem FX ChannelAssign festgelegten Kanals zu synchronisieren (die Modulrate für die anderen
     Kanäle bleibt unverändert). Die Tap-Taste leuchtet hell auf, wenn ein BPM-Wert automatisch auf diese
     Weise erkannt wird. Im zweiten Display wird Auto neben dem BPM-Wert angezeigt. Wenn Sie eine
     kompatible Denon DJ Mediaplayer mit Engine Connect verwenden, steuert Mediaplayern das BPM-
     Effektmodul und das Engine-Logo wird auf dem zweiten Display angezeigt.
45. FX Frequency: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um ein Frequenzband des Audiosignals auszuwählen, auf
    das die BPM-Effekte angewendet werden sollen. Wählen Sie die Mittelposition (12 Uhr), um Effekte auf
    das gesamte Frequenzspektrum anzuwenden.
46. Quantize/-Utility: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um die BPM-Effekte mit den Media-Playern zu quantisieren,
    die mit den Link-Ports verbunden sind.
     Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das Optionsmenü, das im Display erscheint, aufzurufen oder zu verlassen.
     Beim Verlassen des Optionsmenüs werden auch die vorgenommenen Änderungen gespeichert.
47. MIDI Start/Stop: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um eine MIDI-Start- oder MIDI-Stop-Meldung aus dem USB-
    Port oder dem MIDI-Ausgang zu senden (Sie können das Optionsmenü zur Auswahl verwenden,). Das
    Tempo richtet sich nach der Auswahl des FX Channel Assign-Reglers. Wenn Sie die Auswahl des FX
    Channel Assign-Reglers ändern, halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um das neue Tempo zu senden.
48. Engine Connect: Wenn die Link-Ports mit kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern verbunden sind,
    drücken Sie diese Taste, um es dem X1850 PRIME zu ermöglichen, Timing- und BPM-Informationen
    (zur Synchronisation von Effekttempos) zu empfangen und Track- und Benutzerprofildaten zwischen
    Mediaplayern zu senden.
     Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um die manuelle Kanalzuweisung auf den Displays kompatibler Media-
     Player anzuzeigen.
49. USB Ports: Verwenden Sie Standard-USB-Kabel, um Computer mit diesen USB-Anschlüssen zu verbinden.



Rückseite


                           1                11
                   2                             10 10 10 10                       13
                                  8        9                               12
                                                15
                          4                 7          14
                                 5 6             16           3 3 3 3 3
1.   Netzeingang: Verwenden Sie das mitgelieferte, verriegelbare Netzkabel, um diesen Eingang mit einer
     Steckdose zu verbinden. Drücken Sie zum Entfernen des Netzkabels auf die gelbe Lasche und ziehen
     Sie das Kabel aus dem Eingang. Sie können anstelle des mitgelieferten verriegelbaren Netzkabels auch
     ein Standard-IEC-Netzkabel verwenden.
2.   Netzschalter: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das X1850 PRIME ein- oder auszuschalten. Schalten Sie
     das X1850 PRIME erst ein, nachdem Sie all Ihre Eingabegeräte verbunden haben und bevor Sie Ihren
     Verstärker und Lautsprecher einschalten. Schalten Sie den Verstärker und Lautsprecher aus, bevor Sie
     das X1850 PRIME ausschalten.
3.   Link Ports: Verwenden Sie standardmäßige Netzwerkkabel, um diese Ports mit Ihren kompatiblen Denon
     DJ Mediaplayern und/oder Ihrem Computer zu verbinden. Jeder vernetzte Mediaplayer kann diese
     Verbindungen nutzen, um Timing- und BPM-Informationen mit dem X1850 PRIME (zur Synchronisation
     von Effekttempos) sowie Track- und Benutzerprofildaten mit anderen Mediaplayern zu teilen.
4.   Master-Ausgänge (XLR, symmetrisch): Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches XLR-Kabel, um diese
     Ausgänge mit Ihren Lautsprechern oder einem Verstärkersystem zu verbinden. Verwenden Sie den
     Master-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke einzustellen.

                                                                                                      65
5.   Master-Ausgänge (Cinch, unsymmetrisch): Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches Cinch-Kabel, um diese
     Ausgänge mit Ihren Lautsprechern oder einem Verstärkersystem zu verbinden. Verwenden Sie den
     Master-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke einzustellen.
6.   Aufnahmeausgänge (Record) (Cinch): Verwenden Sie standardmäßige Cinch-Kabel, um diese Ausgänge
     mit einem Audiointerface, einem externen Mixer oder einem anderen Gerät zu verbinden. Verwenden Sie
     das Optionsmenü, um auszuwählen, ob der Mix, der an diese Ausgänge gesendet wird, das Audiosignal
     der Mikrofone enthalten soll (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > Microphone).
7.   Booth-Ausgänge (6,35 mm Klinke, symmetrisch): Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches 6,35 mm-
     Klinkenkabel, um diese Ausgänge mit Booth-Monitoren oder einem Booth-Verstärkersystem zu
     verbinden. Verwenden Sie den Booth-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke einzustellen.
     Verwenden Sie das Optionsmenü, um auszuwählen, ob der Mix, der an diese Ausgänge gesendet wird,
     das Audiosignal der Mikrofone enthält (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > Microphone).
8.   Send-Ausänge (6,35 mm, TRS): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit den Eingängen eines externen
     Effektmoduls oder eines anderen Gerätes.
9.   Return-Eingänge (6,35 mm, TRS): Verbinden Sie diese Eingänge mit den Ausgängen eines externen
     Effektmoduls oder eines anderen Gerätes. Im Optionsmenü können Sie den Pegel dieses Audiosignals
     einstellen (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > FX).
10. Phono/Line-Eingänge (Cinch): Verwenden Sie standardmäßige Cinch-Kabel, um diese Line- oder
    Phono-Level-Eingänge mit einer externen Audioquelle zu verbinden. Verwenden Sie die
    Eingangswahlschalter auf der Oberseite, um festzulegen, ob das Signal von den Line-Level-
    Eingängen oder Phono-Level-Eingängen an jeden Kanal gesendet wird.
11. Erdungsklemme: Wenn Sie Phono-Level-Plattenspieler mit einem Erdungsdraht verwenden, verbinden
    Sie den Erdungsdraht mit diesen Klemmen. Wenn Sie ein tiefes Brummgeräusch oder Summen hören,
    könnte dies bedeuten, dass Ihre Plattenspieler nicht geerdet sind.
     Hinweis: Einige Plattenspieler haben einen im Cinch-Anschluss integrierten Erdungsdraht. In diesem
     Fall muss nichts an die Erdungsklemmen angeschlossen werden.
12. Mic 2-Eingang (6,35 mm Klinke, symmetrisch): Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches 6,35 mm
    Klinkenkabel (nicht im Lieferumfang enthalten), um ein standardmäßiges dynamisches Mikrofon an
    diesen Eingang anzuschließen. Verwenden Sie den Mic 2 Pegelregler an der Oberseite, um die
    Lautstärke einzustellen.
13. MIDI-Ausgang (5-polig DIN): Verwenden Sie ein standardmäßiges MIDI-Kabel, um diesen Ausgang mit
    dem MIDI-Eingang eines optionalen, externen MIDI-Gerätes zu verbinden. Sie können die MIDI-Send-
    Taste verwenden, um MIDI-Start-Messages von diesem Ausgang aus zu senden. Sie können diese
    Verbindung auch im Optionsmenü aktivieren oder deaktivieren (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü >
    System).
14. Digital In (Digital-Cinch): Verwenden Sie digitale Cinch-Kabel, um diese 24-Bit / 96 KHz-Eingänge mit
    den digitalen Ausgängen Ihrer kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern zu verbinden.
15. Digital Link In (Digital-Cinch): Wenn Sie mehr als ein X1850 PRIME-Mischpult verwenden, nutzen Sie
    ein digitales Cinch-Kabel, um diesen Eingang mit dem digitalen Ausgang des anderen X1850 PRIME
    Mischpultes zu verbinden.
16. Digital Out (Digital-Cinch): Verwenden Sie ein digitales Cinch-Kabel, um diesen Ausgang mit dem digitalen
    Eingang eines anderen X1850 PRIME-Gerätes oder einer externen Schnittstelle, eines Mischpults oder
    eines anderen Geräts zu verbinden. Im Optionsmenü können Sie den Pegel des ausgehenden Audiosignals
    einstellen (siehe Betrieb > Optionsmenü > Advanced Audio).




66
Betrieb

Effekte

BPM Effekt-Modul
Mit dem eingebauten Effektmodul können Sie je nach aktuellem Tempo einen bestimmten Effekt auf
bestimmte Kanäle anwenden.

Um das BPM-Effektmodul ein- oder auszuschalten, drücken Sie BPM FX On/Off.

Drehen Sie den FX Channel Assign-Regler, um den Kanal auszuwählen, auf den das BPM-Effektmodul
  seine Effekte anwendet. Sie haben folgende Optionen: Channel 1, 2, 3, or 4; X-Fader A oder B (beide
  Seiten des Crossfaders); Mic (beide Mikrofonsignale); oder Master (der Master-Mix).
Um den Effekt auf den Cue-Kanal anzuwenden oder zu entfernen, drücken Sie FX Cue. Wenn die Taste
  leuchtet, werden Effekte nur auf den Cue-Kanal des Kopfhörers angewendet.

Um einen Effekt auszuwählen, drehen Sie den FX Select/Enter-Regler. Dies sind die verfügbaren Effekte:
 • Echo: Dieser Effekt fügt dem Originalsignal Echos hinzu. Stellen Sie mit dem FX-Parameter-Regler
    den Feedback-Pegel des Echo-Effekts ein.
 •   Delay: Dieser Effekt fügt wiederholte Instanzen des Originalsignals hinzu, die nach und nach
     verklingen.
 •   Hall-Echo: Dieser Effekt fügt eine Kombination aus Hall und Echo hinzu. Stellen Sie mit dem FX-
     Parameter-Regler den Abklingwert des Echo-Effekts ein.
 •   Ping Pong: Dies ist ein Stereo-Delay-Effekt, bei dem die Verzögerungsrate zwischen den linken und
     rechten Kanälen unterschiedlich ist.
 •   Auto Gate: Dieser Effekt unterbricht das ursprüngliche Signal regelmäßig.
 •   Flanger: Dieser Effekt fügt eine etwas verzögerte Kopie des Originalsignals hinzu, um einen
     Kammfiltereffekt zu erzeugen (wird oft mit einem startenden Düsenjet verglichen).
 •   Filter: Dieser Effekt variiert regelmäßig die Filter-Cutoff-Frequenz.
 •   Phaser: Dieser Effekt fügt eine Kopie des Originalsignals hinzu, wobei seine Phase etwas verschoben
     ist, um einen subtilen, modulierenden Effekt zu erzeugen.
 •   Bit-Crush: Dieser Effekt fügt einen Filter mit niedriger Bitrate hinzu. Verwenden Sie den FX-Parameter-
     Regler, um Bit-Durchschnitt und -Tiefe einzustellen bzw. um den Klang des Effekts zu ändern.
 •   Reverb: Dieser Effekt fügt dem Originalsignal einen Nachhall hinzu. Die Verzögerung hängt vom
     Tempo ab. Verwenden Sie den FX-Parameter-Regler, um das Ausklingen des Reverbs einzustellen
     und drücken den FX-Parameter-Regler, während der Reverb aktiv ist, um ihn "einzufrieren" und den
     Kanalton auszuschalten.
 •   Roll: Dieser Effekt tastet das aktuelle Audiosignal ab und wiederholt es in regelmäßigen Abständen
     basierend auf der aktuellen Zeitteilung.
 •   RevRoll (Reverse Roll): Dieser Effekt tastet das aktuelle Audiosignal ab und wiederholt es rückwärts in
     regelmäßigen Abständen basierend auf der aktuellen Zeitteilung.
 •   BeatBreak: Dieser Effekt sampelt die vier Schläge jedes Taktes im Originalsignal und gibt sie
     (innerhalb desselben Taktes) nach einem Preset-Muster wieder, wodurch ein „stotternder“ Breakbeat-
     Effekt entsteht.
     Um ein zu verwendendes Pattern auszuwählen, drehen Sie den FX Time-Regler, um Pattern 0–15
        zu wählen, wie am zweiten Display gezeigt wird. Die 16 Blöcke ( █ ) und/oder Zeilen ( __ ) darunter
        zeigen den Rhythmus des aktuellen Patterns ähnlich wie bei einem Step Sequencer eines
        Drumcomputers: Ein Block repräsentiert einen „Schlag“ und eine Linie zeigt eine Pause.
     Beispiele:
                                                            Zeigt einen Schlag bei jedem Beat an.
                                                            Zeigt einen Schlag auf jeder 8tel-Note an.
                                                       Zeigt einen Schlag auf jeder 16tel-Note (jede
                                                       Note des Patterns) an.
     Verwenden Sie das Optionen-Menü, um die Muster zu bearbeiten (siehe Optionsmenü > FX).



                                                                                                         67
 •   Scratch: Dieser Effekt wechselt zwischen normaler und umgekehrter Wiedergabe jedes Taktes und
     erzeugt so einen Vinyl-Scratching-Effekt.
 •   Pumper: Dieser Effekt dämpft oder "duckt" den Sound beim Downbeat, ähnlich wie bei einem
     Sidechain-Kompressor. Die verfügbaren Parameter inkludieren:
        o Duck: Stellt die Lautstärkedämpfung ein: -2dB bis -20dB.
        o Offset: Legt die Zeit für den Ducking-Offset in Takten fest: -1/16, -1/8, -1/4 oder -1/2.
 •   Echo Hold: Mit diesem Effekt wird ein Echo angewendet, das beim Drehen des FX Amount-Reglers
     im Uhrzeigersinn über den Mittelpunkt hinaus das letzte Echo wiederholt. Drehen Sie den FX Amount-
     Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn bis zum Mittelpunkt zurück, um Echo-Hold zu entfernen.
 •   SendRtn (Send/Return): Diese Option aktiviert die Send-Ausgänge und die Return-Eingänge, so dass
     Sie Effekte von einem externen Effektgerät einschleifen können.

Alle BPM-Effekte sind zeitbasiert, so dass das BPM-Effektmodul mehrere Möglichkeiten bietet, das Tempo
einzugeben oder zu erkennen.
      Gehen Sie folgendermaßen vor, um die Zeitteilung des BPM-Effektmoduls anzupassen:
          • Vergewissern Sie sich, dass im unteren Display die Zeitteilung (__ Beat) ausgewählt ist (falls
               nicht, drücken Sie den FX Time-Regler) und drehen dann den FX Time-Regler, um eine
               andere Zeitteilung zu wählen.
          • Wenn die Instant-Taste ausgeschaltet ist, tippen Sie auf einen Bereich des FX-Touch-
               Strips, um eine Zeitteilung auszuwählen. Ein entsprechendes Licht entlang des FX-Touch-
               Strip leuchtet auf, um die aktuelle Zeitteilung anzuzeigen.
      Um die Geschwindigkeit des BPM-Effektmoduls in Millisekunden einzustellen, stellen Sie sicher,
       dass die Millisekundenrate (__ ms) im unteren Display ausgewählt ist (ist dies nicht der Fall, drücken
       Sie den FX Time-Regler) und drehen dann den FX Time-Regler, um ihn anzupassen.

Um ein neues Tempo einzugeben, drücken Sie mindestens 3 Mal im gewünschten Tempo auf Tap.
 Dadurch wird die Rate des BPM-Effektmoduls für den Kanal eingestellt, der mit dem FX Channel Assign-
 Regler festgelegt wurde (die Modulrate für andere Kanäle bleibt unverändert). Die Tap-Schaltfläche
 leuchtet schwach, wenn Sie einen manuell auf diese Weise eingegebenen BPM-Wert verwenden.
Um das Tempo automatisch zu erkennen, halten Sie Tap/-Auto 1 Sekunde lang gedrückt. Dies
 synchronisiert die Geschwindigkeit des BPM-Effekts mit dem Audiosignal des Kanals, der mit dem FX
 Channel Assign-Regler festgelegt wurde (die Modulrate für die anderen Kanäle bleibt unverändert). Die
 Tap-Taste leuchtet hell auf, wenn ein BPM-Wert automatisch auf diese Weise erkannt wird. Im zweiten
 Display wird Auto neben dem BPM-Wert angezeigt.
 Hinweis: Wenn Sie eine kompatible Denon DJ Mediaplayer mit Engine Connect verwenden, steuert
 Mediaplayer das BPM-Effektmodul und das Engine-Logo wird auf dem zweiten Display angezeigt.
Um das Tempo manuell einzustellen, halten Sie Tap/-Auto gedrückt und drehen dann den FX Time-
 Regler, um die BPM in Einserschritten einzustellen. Während Sie noch Tap/-Auto halten, drücken Sie und
 drehen Sie den FX Time-Regler, um das Tempo in Schritten von 0,1 BPM einzustellen.
Um die FX-Quantisierung zu aktivieren, verwenden Sie die FX Quantize-Einstellung im Menü Optionen >
 FX. Wenn diese Option aktiviert ist, wird BPM FX ab einem Beat oder einer Beat-Erhöhung mithilfe des
 Beat-Rasters eines kompatiblen Media-Players aktiviert.

Sie können den FX-Signalanteil ganz einfach ändern, um die Balance zwischen dem "wet" Signal (dem
Ausgangssignal des BPM-Effektmoduls) und dem "dry" Signal (Audiosignal ohne BPM-Effekte) einzustellen.
     Um die Balance zwischen den „wet“ und „dry“ Signalen einzustellen, drehen Sie den FX Amount-
       Regler. Alternativ können Sie den FX-Touch-Strip im Instant FX-Modus verwenden (siehe unten).

Normalerweise würden Sie Effekte auf das gesamte Frequenzspektrum anwenden, aber mit dem X1850
PRIME können Sie diese auch auf einen isolierten Frequenzbereich des Audiosignals (des ausgewählten
Kanals) anwenden.
     Um das Frequenzband einzustellen, drehen Sie den FX Frequency-Regler. Wählen Sie die
        Mittelposition (12 Uhr), um Effekte auf das gesamte Frequenzspektrum anzuwenden.

Der Instant FX-Modus ermöglicht es Ihnen, den FX-Touch-Strip zu verwenden, um den Effekt zu aktivieren
und gleichzeitig seine Zeitteilung einzustellen.
      Um Instant FX-Modus zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie Instant. Die Taste leuchtet,
        wenn sie aktiviert ist.
      Um den Effekt zu aktivieren, halten Sie den Finger auf den FX Touch-Strip und bewegen den Finger
        dann nach oben oder unten, um die Zeitteilung des Effekts anzupassen.

68
Sweep FX
Mit Sweep FX können Sie einen von vier Effekten auf die vier Kanäle anwenden und mit den Sweep FX-
Reglern „abtasten“. Sie können jeweils nur einen Sweep-Effekt gleichzeitig anwenden.

Um einen Sweep-Effekt zu aktivieren, tippen Sie auf eine der Sweep FX-Tasten: Dub Echo, Noise, Wash Out
 oder Gate. Die Taste leuchtet auf, wenn sie aktiviert ist. Es kann jeweils nur eine dieser Tasten aktiviert werden.
Um einen Sweep-Effekt zu deaktivieren, tippen Sie auf die beleuchtete Sweep FX-Taste. Alternativ können
 Sie eine andere Sweep FX-Taste drücken, um sie zu aktivieren, wodurch der zuvor gewählte Effekt
 automatisch deaktiviert wird.

Bei allen Sweep-Effekten wird der Effekt durch die mittlere Position („12:00“) des Sweep FX-Reglers
umgangen. Wenn Sie den Sweep FX-Regler von dieser Position aus im oder gegen den Uhrzeigersinn
drehen, wird der Effekt angewendet. Je nach Effekttyp können sich die Ergebnisse in jeder Richtung
unterscheiden. Die verfügbaren Sweep-Effekte und ihre Funktionen lauten wie folgt:
 • Dub Echo: Dieser Effekt fügt ein kurzes Echo hinzu. Drehen Sie einen Sweep FX-Regler gegen den
      Uhrzeigersinn, um die Verzögerungszeit zu verkürzen und die Rückkopplung zu erhöhen oder drehen Sie
      ihn im Uhrzeigersinn, um die Länge der Verzögerung sowie die Rückkopplung zu erhöhen.
 • Noise: Dieser Effekt fügt dem Signal ein Rauschen hinzu. Ausgehend von der mittleren Position
      (12:00) drehen Sie einen Sweep FX-Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um weißes Rauschen mit einem
      zeitbasierten Gate-Effekt hinzuzufügen, der mit dem Tempo des Kanals synchronisiert ist, oder drehen
      Sie ihn im Uhrzeigersinn, um weißes Rauschen hinzuzufügen.
 • Wash Out: Dies erzeugt einen Übergangseffekt. Drehen Sie einen Sweep FX-Regler auf die Position
      ganz links (Minimalposition), um ein 1/2-Beat-Echo anzuwenden, das auch das normale Audiosignal
      des Kanals stumm schaltet oder drehen Sie ihn auf die Position ganz rechts, um ein 1-Beat Echo
      anzuwenden.
 • Gate: Dieser Effekt wendet einen zeitbasierten Gate-Effekt auf das Signal an. Beginnen Sie bei der 12-
      Uhr-Position und drehen Sie den Sweep FX-Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Gate-Effekt
      zu verwenden, der mit dem Tempo des Kanals synchronisiert ist oder drehen Sie den Regler im
      Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Gate-Effekt anzuwenden, der das Signal dämpft. Je weiter der Regler im
      Uhrzeigersinn gedreht wird, desto stärker ist die Dämpfung.


Optionsmenü
Im Options-Menü können Sie verschiedene Einstellungen auf X1850 PRIME anpassen, die das Audiosignal-
Routing, das Effektmodul, die Eingangs- und Ausgangspegel und vieles mehr beeinflussen.

Um das Options-Menü aufzurufen oder zu verlassen, halten Sie die Quantize/-Utility-Taste. Beim
 Verlassen des Optionen-Menüs werden auch die vorgenommenen Änderungen gespeichert.

Im Optionen-Menü können Sie eine der folgenden Aktionen ausführen:
 • Um eine Option auszuwählen, drehen Sie den FX Select/Enter-Regler.
 • Um Ihre Auswahl zu bestätigen oder ein Untermenü aufzurufen, drücken Sie den FX Select/Enter-
     Regler.
 • Drücken Sie Back, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm zu gelangen.

Nachfolgend finden Sie Beschreibungen der verschiedenen Untermenüs im Optionen-Menü:

EQ
Über diese Einstellungen wird festgelegt, wie die Kanal-EQ-Regler für den Kanal funktionieren.
 • Type: Wählen Sie ISO aus, um die Bereiche des Kanal-EQ-Reglers auf -∞ bis +6dB/+10dB (wie
     beschriftet) einzustellen. Wählen Sie EQ aus, um die Bereiche des Kanal-EQ-Reglers auf
     -24dB bis +6dB (für andere Player, die diese Einstellung möglicherweise benötigen) einzustellen.
 • High Cross Over: Dies ist die Übergangsfrequenz zwischen den High- und Mid-EQ-Reglern, wenn
     Type auf ISO eingestellt ist: 1000Hz–8000Hz (in verschiedenen Schritten).
 • Low Cross Over: Dies ist die Übergangsfrequenz zwischen den Mid und Low EQ-Reglern, wenn Type
     auf ISO eingestellt ist: 100Hz–800Hz (in verschiedenen Schritten).
 • Reset EQ Default: Wählen Sie OK aus, um diese Einstellungen für den Kanal-EQ auf die Standardwerte
     zurückzusetzen oder wählen Sie Cancel aus, um zum vorherigen Menü zurückzukehren.

                                                                                                                 69
Filter
 •   Resonance: Dies ist die Resonanz der Filter auf den Kanälen 1-4 (d.h. in welchem Maß die
     Frequenzen, die jenseits der Grenzfrequenz liegen, den Filter passieren können. 0 ist eine flache
     Einstellung (Frequenzen, die jenseits der Grenzfrequenz liegen, sind überhaupt nicht zu hören),
     während 15 eine hohe Resonanz ergibt (die Grenzfrequenz wird nicht so „strikt“ gehandhabt, so dass
     einige benachbarten Frequenzen zu hören sind).
 •   Extreme Type: Diese Einstellung bestimmt den Effekt der Sweep-Filter an den extrem tiefen und hohen
     Enden. Wählen Sie Kill, damit die Filterextreme in Stille enden oder Bleed, damit sie wiedergegeben
     wird.

Headphone
 •   Attenuation: Dies ist der Verstärkungspegel des Kopfhörerausgangs: -10dB bis +10dB.
 •   Split Cue Output: Hiermit legen Sie fest, auf welcher Seite des Stereosignals das Cue-Programm
     über Kopfhörer (Left oder Right) wiedergegeben wird.


Microphone
Diese Einstellungen wirken sich auf die Mikrofone aus.
 • Attenuation: Dies ist der Verstärkungspegel der Mikrofoneingänge: -15dB bis 0dB.
 • Gate Threshold: Diese Einstellung ändert den Audioanteil, der erforderlich ist, um das Mikrofonsignal
     zu aktivieren. Unterschiedliche Mikrofontypen erfordern möglicherweise eine Anpassung für eine
     optimale Verwendung: -40dB bis -79dB.
 • Talk Over Level: Diese Einstellung legt fest, wie weit die Lautstärke des Master-Mixes reduziert wird,
     wenn die Funktion Mikrofon-Talkover aktiviert wird: -40dB bis -20dB.
 • Talk Over Resume: Wenn die Talkover-Funktion verwendet wird, kehrt die Lautstärke des Master-Mixes
     zur normalen Lautstärke zurück, wenn der Mikrofoneingang kein eingehendes Signal mehr wahrnimmt.
     Diese Einstellung legt fest, ob dieser Übergang moderat (Normal) oder schnell (Fast) abläuft.
 • EQ High: Dies ist das Frequenzband, das durch den High Mic EQ-Regler beeinflusst wird: 1,000Hz–
     10,000Hz (in verschiedenen Schritten).
 • EQ Low: Dies ist das Frequenzband, das durch den Low Mic EQ-Regler beeinflusst wird: 100Hz–
     10,000Hz (in verschiedenen Schritten).
 • Booth Receive: Wählen Sie On aus, um das Mikrofonsignal die Booth-Ausgänge zu senden. Wählen Sie Off,
     um das Mikrofonsignal von den Booth-Ausgängen zu entfernen.
 • Headphone Receive: Wählen Sie On, damit das Mikrofonsignal an die Kopfhörer gesendet werden
     kann. Wählen Sie Off, um das Mikrofonsignal von dem Kopfhörer zu entfernen.
 • Reset EQ Default: Wählen Sie OK aus, um diese Mikrofoneinstellungen auf die Standardwerte
     zurückzusetzen oder wählen Sie Cancel aus, um zum vorherigen Menü zurückzukehren.

FX
Diese Einstellungen wirken sich auf die Effekte des X1850 PRIME aus.
 • FX Return: Dies ist der Einheitspegel für die Sendeausgänge und die Empfangseingänge: -10dB–
     +10dB. Sie müssen diese Einstellungen möglicherweise anpassen, je nachdem welche Arten von
     externen Effekten Sie verwenden.
 • Beat Break Edit: Mithilfe dieses Menüs können Sie die Muster für den BeatBreak-Effekt auswählen,
     bearbeiten und speichern. Siehe Effekte > BPM-Effekt-Modul für weitere Informationen zu der
     Funktionsweise dieses Effekts.
     So bearbeiten Sie ein Muster:
     1. Drehen Sie den FX Select/Enter -Regler, um ein Muster auszuwählen (1–16) und drücken Sie
          dann darauf.
     2. Drehen Sie den FX Select/Enter-Regler, um eine der 12 16tel-Noten im Muster auszuwählen. Sie
          können die vier Hauptbeats des Musters nicht bearbeiten, sie ertönen immer, da sie das
          abgetastete Audio enthalten.
          Drücken Sie auf den FX Select/Enter-Regler, um den Beat von einem „Schlag“/„Strike“ ( █ ) in
          eine „Pause“ ( __ ) zu ändern oder umgekehrt.
          Wiederholen Sie bei Bedarf diesen Schritt.
     3. Drücken Sie auf Back, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm zurückzukehren.


70
 •   FX List Customize: Verwenden Sie diesen Bildschirm zur benutzerdefinierten Anordnung der Effekte.
     Drehen Sie den FX Select/Enter-Regler, um aus der verfügbaren Liste auf der linken Seite einen
     Effekt auszuwählen und drücken Sie dann auf den Regler, um den Effekt der neuen Anordnung auf der
     rechten Seite hinzuzufügen. Wiederholen Sie diesen Schritt für jeden Effekt oder wählen Sie -Cancel-
     aus, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm zurückzukehren. Nachdem Sie dies für alle Effekte getan haben,
     wählen Sie -End- aus, um ihre benutzerdefinierte Liste zu speichern.
 •   BPM FX On Color: Diese Einstellung legt die Farbe der BPM FX On/Off-Taste fest, wenn diese
     aufleuchtet: red, spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange oder purple.
 •   Noise Level: Diese Einstellung bestimmt den Geräuschpegel bei Verwendung des Noise Sweep FX:
     -20dB bis +15dB.
 •   FX Quantize: Mit dieser Einstellung wird festgelegt, wie lange FX nach dem Aktivieren der BPM FX -
     Taste warten soll: 1, 1/2, 1/4 oder 1/8 Beat. Dies hält den FX im Takt mit dem Beat-Raster der
     verbundenen Media-Player.
 •   FX Limiter: Schalten Sie diese Einstellung auf On, um die Lautstärke des FX-Ausgangs so zu
     begrenzen, dass sie dem Eingang des Kanals entspricht. Wählen Sie Off, um dem FX keinen Limiter
     zuzuweisen.


Advanced Audio
Diese Einstellungen bestimmen den digitalen Betrieb des Mixers sowie andere erweiterte Funktionen.
 •   Sampling Rate: Dies ist die Abtastrate des USB-Audiosignals: 44.1kHz, 48kHz oder 96kHz.
 •   Master Out Level: Dies ist ein Ausgleich zum Lautstärkepegel des Master-Ausgangs: -15dB bis 0dB.
 •   Master Limiter: Hiermit wird ein Limiter auf den Master-Ausgang angewendet: 20dB bis 0dB. Wählen
     Sie Off, um dem Master-Ausgang keinen Begrenzer zuzuweisen.
 •   Booth Settings: Diese Einstellungen bestimmen das Routing für das Booth-Audiosignal:
      o Booth Pan: Hiermit kann dem Booth-Audio zusammen mit dem Master-Audio eine Panning-
         Einstellung zugewiesen werden: Disable oder Enable.
      o Booth Out Level: Dies ist ein Ausgleich zum Lautstärkepegel des Booth-Ausgangs: 0dB bis
         -15dB.
 •   USB Audio: Diese Einstellungen legen das Routing und die Pegel des USB-Audios fest.
      o CH1–4/Master/Cue Assign: Diese Einstellungen legen fest, welche USB-Audio-Kanäle (1/2–
          9/10) das Audiosignal der Kanäle 1–4 (CH1–CH4) und des Master-Mixes (Master) empfangen
          werden.
      o Output Level: Dies ist ein Offset des Lautstärkepegels des Master-Mixes, der über eine USB-
          Verbindung an Ihren Computer gesendet wird: -20dB bis +20dB.
      o Ch Input Level: Dies ist ein Ausgleich zum Lautstärkepegel der Audiosignale, die über eine
          USB-Verbindung an Ihren Computer gesendet werden: -20dB bis +20dB.
      o Broadcast-Modus: Wenn diese Option aktiviert ist, können Sie mit dieser Option das
          Mastersignal über USB-Audiokanäle 1–2 zur Verwendung mit Broadcast-Software an Ihren
          Computer senden. Stellen Sie dies auf Aus, um den Broadcast-Modus zu deaktivieren.
          Hinweis: Wenn der Broadcast-Modus aktiviert ist, wird eine Meldung angezeigt, die darauf
          hinweist, dass DVS auf Kanal 1 deaktiviert ist. Drücken Sie Enter, um fortzufahren.
 •   DVS Setup: Für die Kanäle 1–4 (CH1–CH4) wählen Sie den Eingangspegel aus, den der jeweilige
     Kanal verwendet, wenn der Eingangswahlschalter auf DVS festgelegt ist. Wählen Sie Phono aus, um
     Control Vinyl-Schallplatten zu verwenden oder Line, um Control CDs zu verwenden.
 •   Digital Settings:
      o Digital Out: Dies ist ein Ausgleich zum Lautstärkepegel des Audiosignals, das über den digitalen
           Ausgang gesendet wird: -20dB bis +20dB.
      o Digital Link: Wählen Sie On aus, um das ausgehende Signal vor dem Master-Regler und dem
           Booth-Regler zu summieren, mit dem Sie deren Ausgangspegel steuern können. Wählen Sie On
           aus, um das ausgehende Signal vor dem Master-Regler und dem Booth-Regler zu summieren,
           mit denen Sie deren Aufgangspegel steuern können.
      o Link Level: Dies ist ein Offset des Lautstärkepegels des Audiosignals, das an den digitalen Link-
           Eingang gesendet wird: -20dB bis +20dB.
 •   Cross Fader Cut: Diese Einstellungen bestimmen, wie weit Sie den Crossfader von jeder Seite (Fader
     Cut A oder B) verschieben müssen, bis er anfängt, sich auf das Audiosignal auszuwirken: -2.0mm bis
     1.0mm

                                                                                                       71
System
Diese Einstellungen legen den Gesamtbetrieb fest.
 • Info: Diese Bildschirme enthalten Informationen über die aktuelle Firmware-Version sowie Netzwerk-
     informationen.
       o Version: Dies ist die aktuelle X1850 PRIME-Firmware-Version.
       o IP Address: Dies ist die von X1850 PRIME verwendete Firmware-Adresse.
       o MAC Address: Dies ist die von X1850 PRIME verwendete Mac-Adresse.
 • Display:
       o Display Brightness: Diese Einstellung ändert die Helligkeit des OLED-Displays: Low, Med oder
           High.
       o LED Brightness: Diese Einstellung ändert die Helligkeit aller LEDs auf der Bedienoberfläche:
           Low, Med oder High.
 • Engine Connect: Wählen Sie Auto aus, damit X1850 PRIME automatisch Timing- und BPM-
     Informationen (zur Synchronisierung des Effekttempos) von mit seinen Link-Ports verbundenen
     kompatiblen Mediaplayern erhalten und Track- and Benutzerprofildaten zwischen ihnen gesendet
     werden können. X1850 PRIME erfasst und konfiguriert jeder Mediaplayer automatisch sobald Sie
     deren Link-Ports miteinander verbinden. Wählen Sie Manual aus, um das automatische Verknüpfen
     zu deaktivieren und diese Funktion nur manuell zu aktivieren, indem Sie die Engine Connect-Taste
     drücken und halten, bis der Bildschirm Channel Assignment auf den Mediaplayern erscheint. Sie
     können dann jede Mediaplayer-Schicht frei einem bestimmten Kanal zuweisen.
 • Cue Settings:
       o Cue Solo Mode: Wählen Sie On aus, um die Kanal-Cue-Tasten als „Solo“-Tasten (die
           Betätigung einer Taste sorgt für die Stummschaltung aller andern Kanäle) zu verwenden. Wählen
           Sie Off, um sie als normale Cue-Tasten zu verwenden (die Betätigung einer Taste sendet das
           jeweilige Signal an den Cue-Kanal).
       o Cue 1–4 Color: Diese Einstellung bestimmt die Farbe der Cue-Tasten für jeden Kanal: red,
           spring green, green, light blue, blue, yellow, orange oder purple.
       o Reset Cue Defaults: Wählen Sie OK aus, um diese Cue-Einstellungen auf die Standardwerte
           zurückzusetzen oder wählen Sie Cancel aus, um zum vorherigen Menü zurückzukehren.
 • Contour Lock: Wenn diese Einstellung auf On gesetzt ist, wird Crossfader Contour an der aktuellen
     Reglerposition fixiert, sodass sie nicht geändert wird, wenn der Regler bewegt wird. Stellen Sie dies
     auf Off, um die Fixierung zu lösen.
 • Through Position Lock: Wenn diese Einstellung auf On steht werden die Crossfader Assign -
     Schalter in der Thru-Position fixiert, sodass die Position nicht geändert wird, wenn der Schalter
     bewegt wird. Stellen Sie dies auf Off, um die Fixierung zu lösen.
 • Network Settings:
       o Refresh IP Address: Wählen Sie OK aus, um Ihre IP-Adresse zu erneuern, was die Verbindung
           zwischen Ihrem X1850 PRIME und allen kompatiblen Denon DJ Mediaplayern, die mit den Link-
           Ports verbunden sind, wiederherstellt. Wählen Sie Cancel aus, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm
           zurückzukehren.
 • MIDI: Dies sind MIDI-Einstellungen, die bestimmen, wie die MIDI-Verbindungen verwendet werden.
       o Clock Send: Diese Einstellungen legen fest, ob X1850 PRIME MIDI-Clock-Nachrichten über die
           einzelnen Verbindungen senden wird. Wählen Sie für jede Option On aus, um die Übertragung
           zu aktivieren oder Off, um sie zu deaktivieren.
              USB: Dies gilt für USB Ports 1 und 2. Wenn Sie X1850 PRIME zur Steuerung der Software
                  verwenden, setzen Sie diese Option auf On.
              5pin: Dies gilt für MIDI Out.
       o Active Send: Diese Einstellungen legen fest, ob X1850 PRIME normale MIDI-Clock-Nachrichten
           über die einzelnen Verbindungen senden wird. Wählen Sie für jede Option On aus, um die
           Übertragung zu aktivieren oder Off, um sie zu deaktivieren.
              USB: Dies gilt für USB Ports 1 und 2. Wenn Sie X1850 PRIME zur Steuerung der Software
                  verwenden, setzen Sie diese Option auf On.
              5pin: Dies gilt für MIDI Out.
 • Factory Reset: Wählen Sie OK aus, um X1850 PRIME auf die werksseitigen Voreinstellungen
     zurückzusetzen (warten Sie nach der Auswahl einige Sekunden, bevor Sie mit dem normalen Betrieb
     fortfahren). Wählen Sie Cancel aus, um zum vorherigen Bildschirm zurückzukehren.



72
73
Appendix (English)
Technical Specifications
Dynamic Range (master)                  > 117 dB (A-weighted)
Frequency Range                         22–22,000 Hz (+1 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio                   Line                        > 93 dB (A-weighted)
                                        Phono                       > 87 dB (A-weighted)
THD+N                                   < 0.02%
Channel Separation                      < -90 dB (@ 1 KHz, unity)
Headroom                                Line Inputs                 > 16 dB
                                        Microphone Inputs           > 20 dB
                                        Outputs                     > 20 dB
Analog Output                           Master (balanced)           +24 dBu (maximum), +4 dBu (unity)
                                        Master (unbalanced)         +20 dBu (maximum), 0 dBu (unity)
                                        Booth                       +24 dBu (maximum), +4 dBu (unity)
                                        Record                      +10 dBV (maximum), -10 dBV (unity)
                                        Send                        +10 dBV (maximum), -10 dBV (unity)
                                        Headphones                  > 150 mW @ 40 Ω
Analog Input                            Line                        +15 dBV (maximum), 0 dBV (unity)
                                        Phono                       -22 dBV (maximum), -40 dBV (unity)
                                        Microphone                  -40 dBu (maximum), -60 dBu (minimum)
                                        Return                      +15 dBV (maximum), 0 dBV (unity)
Microphone Inputs                       CMRR                        > 80 dB (@ 1 KHz, unity)
                                        EIN                         < -124 dBu (Rs = 150 Ω, DIN)
Digital Output                          Sampling Rate               44.1, 48, 96 kHz
                                        Bit Depth                   24-bit
Displays                                1.6” / 39 mm (diagonal)
                                        1.4” x 0.69” / 35 x 17 mm (width x height)
                                        (2) monochromatic LED-backlit displays
Connections                             (2) XLR outputs (balanced master)
                                        (2) RCA output pairs (1 unbalanced master, 1 unbalanced record)
                                        (5) 1/4” (6.35 mm) outputs (2 booth, 2 send, 1 headphone)
                                        (1) 1/8” (3.5 mm) output (headphone)
                                        (1) coaxial digital output (audio)
                                        (1) 5-pin DIN MIDI output
                                        (8) RCA input pairs (4 line, 4 phono)
                                        (1) XLR+1/4” (6.35 mm) input (Mic 1)
                                        (3) 1/4” (6.35 mm) inputs (2 receive, 1 Mic 2)
                                        (5) RCA digital inputs (4 audio, 1 link)
                                        (5) Ethernet link ports
                                        (1) IEC power inlet with locking connector
Power                                   Connection                  IEC
                                        Input Voltage               100–240 V~, 50/60 Hz
                                        Consumption                 65 W
Dimensions (width x depth x height) 12.2” x 17.5” x 4.3” / 31.1 x 44.5 x 11.0 cm
Weight                                  15.43 lbs. / 7.00 kg

Specifications are subject to change without notice.


Trademarks & Licenses
Denon is a trademark of D&M Holdings Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Denon DJ products are produced by
inMusic Brands, Inc., Cumberland, RI 02864, USA. SD and SDHC are registered trademarks of SD-3C, LLC. All other product
names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners.


74
75
Manual Version 1.4
