User Guide
English ( 3 – 16 )

Guía del usuario
Español ( 17 – 30 )

Guide d’utilisation
Français ( 31 – 44 )

Guida per l’uso
Italiano ( 45 – 58 )

Benutzerhandbuch
Deutsch ( 59 – 72 )

Appendix
English ( 73 – 74 )
2
User Guide (English)
Introduction

Box Contents

NS6II
USB Cable
Power Adapter
Software Download Card
Quickstart Guide
Safety & Warranty Manual


Support

For the latest information about this product (documentation, technical specifications, system
requirements, compatibility information, etc.) and product registration, visit numark.com.
For additional product support, visit numark.com/support.



Setup
Before getting started:
•   Read the Safety & Warranty Manual before using NS6II.
•   Make sure all items listed in the Box Contents are included.
•   Remove the blue film from the platters before using NS6II.


1. Install the Drivers and Software

IMPORTANT: Install the drivers before installing the software.

Drivers (Windows users only): Download and install the latest drivers from
numark.com/NS6II. (You will be asked to connect the NS6II to your computer during
installation.)

Software: Download and install the latest version of Serato DJ from serato.com.




                                                                                             3
2. Connect and Start DJing!

Follow this sequence of steps whenever you use NS6II:
1. Make sure all devices are off and all faders and gain knobs are set to "zero."
2. Connect input sources (microphones, turntables, CD players, etc.) to the NS6II.
3. Connect output devices (power amplifiers, sub-mixer, recorders, etc.) to the NS6II.
4. Plug all devices into power sources, and turn on devices in proper order:
      • When starting a session, turn on (1) input sources, (2) NS6II, (3) output devices.
      • When ending a session, turn off (1) output devices, (2) NS6II, (3) input sources.
5. Connect the NS6II to your computer with the USB cable (included) and to your
   headphones.
6. Open Serato DJ and go! For more information on how to use Serato DJ with NS6II, visit
   serato.com/dj/support and select Numark NS6II.

Important:
•    Touch the platters to calibrate the touch-sensitive circuitry before using NS6II.
•    When reconnecting the NS6II to your computer, the NS6II will recall the previous positions
     of the software (e.g., Pitch, effects parameters, etc.). Be mindful of this before playing a
     track.


Connection Diagram


                Computer(s)                                           House Amp
                                            Microphone




                                            Rear Panel                               Headphones
                                                                                     (front panel)
    Power




                       CD Player         Turntable                     Booth Amp

Items not listed under Introduction > Box Contents are sold separately.




4
Transitioning Between DJs

The NS6II allows two computers running Serato DJ to connect to the unit simultaneously. This allows
two DJs to play at the same time for easy DJ set changeovers. With a computer already connected
to the NS6II and playing (PC1), do the following:
1. Connect a second computer (PC2) to the unused USB port on NS6II’s rear panel. Once the
   computer has connected, the software will show all decks offline. The first computer will still
   control both sides of NS6II.
2. Before giving PC2 control of one side of NS6II, make sure no audio is playing from PC2 on that
   deck, as it will go offline. Then, press and hold Shift and press the Browse Focus / PC1/PC2
   button on the non-playing deck.
   PC2 will now control the two channels on that side of the controller, and will automatically have
   focus of the browse controls. Use the browse knob to scroll through the library, then add the
   desired track to the deck by pressing the Load button.
3. Play a track on PC2’s deck and mix it in when ready—you’ll now have audio from both
   computers in the mix. For example, while PC1 uses Deck A (and the mixer controls for Channels
   1 & 3) to control their computer, PC2 can also use Deck B (and the mixer controls for Channels 2
   & 4) to control their computer.
   With one computer controlling each deck, press the Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 button on the
   non-playing deck to switch control of the browse knob.
4. Fade out the audio playing from PC1’s computer to the audio playing from PC2’s computer.
   When only the audio from PC2’s computer is left in the mix, press and hold Shift and press the
   Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 button on the non-playing deck. Now, PC2 is using both Decks A
   and B to control their computer. You can now disconnect PC1’s computer from NS6II.
Note: If a deck is already in use by a computer, the computer’s virtual deck (in Serato DJ) will
become black and display IN USE.


           Step 1                          Steps 2-3                            Step 4




                                                                                                  5
Features

Top Panel

                                               17       34         35    33    36        37        16
    5         43     43    43            45                                                              43         43       43    45          5

               42     42       42         44            38     38               38        38            42         42       42    44

        3                                      4          46     46           46        46         4                                      48
                           24                                                                                       24
                                                    6     7         7         7         7      6
        25                                                                                                                                25
                                                    8     9    8    9    8    9     8   9      8

        22                                               10         10        10        10                                                22

                                                         11         11        11        11
    39                     1                                                                                            1                  39
                                                         47         47        47        47


                                         18             13 14 13 14 13 14 13 14                         18
             40                                                                                                                      40
               23                              2                                                   2                               23
                                                         12         12        12        12
                28   29    30       31    32                                                            28    29    30      31    32
                                                    21                                       21
        27                                          20                                       20                                           27
                           26                                                                                       26
        41                                                               15                                                               41
                                                    19                                       19



Useful Terms:
•       Audio Pointer: The current position in a track from where audio will play. When you select a
        track and begin playing, the Audio Pointer will usually start from the beginning and stop at the
        end.
•       Cue Point: A marked position in a track, which will be permanently stored by the software. You
        can set, return to, or delete Cue Points with the Cue Controls.
•       Temporary Cue Point: A marked position in a track, which will only remain while that track is
        still loaded in the Deck. You can set and return to the Temporary Cue Point with the Cue button.

General Controls
1. Displays: Use this screen to view information about the current track. See Display for more
        information.
2. Shift: Press and hold this button to access secondary functions (in red lettering) of other controls
        on NS6II.
3. Touch Mode: Press this button to toggle through the Touch Modes. Press once to access the
        touch-capacitive functions of NS6II's FX 1 Knob, FX 2 Knob, and FX 3 Knob. Press a second
        time to access the touch-capacitive functions of those knobs plus the EQ Knobs (Channel High,
        Channel Mid, and Channel Low). These functions are momentary, not "latching."
4. Deck: Selects which Layer in the software is controlled by that hardware Deck. Deck A can
        control Layer 1 or 3; Deck B can control Layer 2 or 4.
5. Browse Focus / PC1/PC2: Press this button to shift the focus of the Scroll knob from one
        connected computer to another.
        Press and hold Shift and then press this button to select whether the deck is controlling the
        computer connected to USB Port 1 or USB Port 2. Remember to set the channel’s input
        selector to PC if you want it to play the audio from that layer in the software
        If only one computer is connected, this button will have no function.



6
Mixer Controls
6. Input Selector: Set this switch to the desired audio source from this channel: PC (a track
   playing on that layer in the software) or Line (a device connected to the Line/Phono
   Inputs on NS6II's rear panel).
   Note: The Line/Phono switches on NS6II's rear panel must also be set properly. Also, a
   channel's controls will only send MIDI information when its Input Selector is set to PC.
7. Gain Trim: Adjusts the pre-fader, pre-EQ audio level of the corresponding channel in the
   software.
8. LED Meters: Monitors the audio levels of the corresponding channel.
9. Channel Treble: Adjusts the high (treble) frequencies. When Touch Mode is activated,
   touching this knob will mute the corresponding channel's high frequencies (an "EQ kill").
10. Channel Mid: Adjusts the mid-range frequencies. When Touch Mode is activated,
    touching this knob will mute the corresponding channel's mid-range frequencies (an "EQ
    kill").
11. Channel Bass: Adjusts the low (bass) frequencies. When Touch Mode is activated,
    touching this knob will mute the corresponding channel's low frequencies (an "EQ kill").
12. Channel Fader: Adjusts the audio level on the corresponding channel in the software.
13. PFL: Press this button to send this channel's pre-fader signal to the Cue Channel for
    monitoring. When engaged, the button will be lit. By pressing one PFL button at a time,
    you will cue that channel alone (and deactivate PFL monitoring for the other channels). To
    cue to multiple channels simultaneously, press the PFL buttons for those channels at the
    same time.
14. Crossfader Assign: Routes the audio playing on the corresponding channel to either side
    of the crossfader (A or B), or bypasses the crossfader and sends the audio directly to the
    Program Mix (center, Off).
15. Crossfader: Blends audio between the channels assigned to the left and right side of the
    crossfader.
   Note: The crossfader is user-replaceable if it should ever wear out. Simply remove the
   facepanel, then remove the screws holding it in position.
16. Master Volume: Adjusts the output volume of the Program Mix.
17. Booth Volume: Adjusts the output volume of the Booth Output mix.




                                                                                             7
Playback Controls
18. Platter: Controls the playhead in the software.
    Press and hold Shift and then move the platter to move quickly through the track.
19. Play / Pause: This button pauses or resumes playback.
    Press and hold Shift and then press this button to "stutter-play" the track from the last set
    Cue Point.
20. Cue: When the Deck is paused, you can set a Temporary Cue Point by moving the platter
    to place the playhead at the desired location and then pressing the Cue Button.
    During playback, you can press the Cue Button to return the track to this Temporary Cue
    Point. (If you did not set a Temporary Cue Point, then it will return to the beginning of the
    track.)
    If the Deck is paused, you can press and hold the Cue Button to play the track from the
    Temporary Cue Point. Releasing the Cue Button will return the track to the Temporary
    Cue Point and pause it. To continue playback without returning to the Temporary Cue
    Point, press and hold the Cue Button, then press and hold the Play Button, and then
    release both buttons.
    Press and hold Shift and then press this button to return to the beginning of the track.
21. Sync: Press this button to automatically match the corresponding Deck's tempo with the
    opposite Deck's tempo and phase. Press and hold Shift and press this button to
    deactivate Sync.
22. Bleep / Keylock: Press this button to reverse audio playback of the track on the
    corresponding deck. Press this button again to resume normal playback from where it
    would have been if you had never engaged the Bleep function (i.e., as if the track had been
    playing forward the whole time).
    Keylock: Press and hold Shift and then press this button to activate or deactivate
    Keylock: the key of the song will lock to whatever position the pitch fader is at when
    Keylock is activated. This feature allows you to change the speed of the song without
    changing the key.
23. Scratch: Press this button to activate or deactivate Scratch Mode. In this mode, you can
    touch the center part of the platter will scratch like a turntable when you spin it. If Scratch
    Mode is off, the center part of the platter will pitch-bend when you spin it.
    Press and hold Shift and then press this button to toggle between time elapsed and time
    remaining in the jog wheel display of the corresponding deck.
24. Strip Search: The length of this strip represents the length of the entire track. Place your
    finger on a point along this sensor to jump to that point in the track. (If you want to scroll
    through a track, we recommend using your computer rather than running your finger along
    the strip.)
25. Slip / Quantize: When using the software's Beat Grid, hold Slip and move the platter to
    "slip" (i.e., shift or slide) the entire Beat Grid to the left or right. This is helpful when the
    Beat Grid is slightly misaligned with the track’s transients. See the Serato DJ manual for
    more information.
    Press and hold Shift and press the Deck A (left side) Slip button to enable or disable
    Quantize for Layer 1 or 3. Press and hold Shift and press the Deck B (right side) Slip
    button to enable or disable Quantize for Layer 2 or 4. When enabled, setting and triggering
    cues and loops will snap to the Beat Grid.




8
Pad Mode Controls
26. Pads: These pads have different functions on each Deck depending on the current Pad
    Mode. They are velocity-sensitive (in certain modes only), durable, and easy to play. In
    this section, when referring to specific pads, it will refer to the numbers as shown here.


                     Pad 1          Pad 2          Pad 3           Pad 4



                     Pad 5          Pad 6          Pad 7           Pad 8


27. Parameter < / >: Use these buttons for various functions in each Pad Mode. Press and
    hold Shift and use these buttons to access secondary parameters.
   If you have purchased the Serato Pitch N’ Time expansion, pressing and holding Shift and
   then pressing these buttons will adjust the Key of the current track down (<) or up (>).
28. Cues: This Pad Mode button switches the pads between two modes: Hot Cue Mode and
    Hot Cue Auto-Loop Mode. When the button is unlit, the first press will always select Hot
    Cue Mode.
      •   Hot Cue Mode: Each pad assigns a Hot Cue Point or returns the track to that Hot
          Cue Point. When a pad is unlit, you can assign a Hot Cue Point by pressing it at the
          desired point in your track. Once it is assigned, the pad will light. Press and hold
          Shift and then press a pad to delete its assigned Hot Cue Point.
      •   Hot Cue Auto-Loop Mode: Each pad assigns a Hot Cue Point or returns the track
          to that Hot Cue Point, but in both cases, it also creates an Auto-Loop at that point.
          The Auto-Loop's length is set in the software, but you can decrease or increase it
          with the Parameter < or Parameter > button.


                   Hot Cue 1       Hot Cue 2      Hot Cue 3      Hot Cue 4




                   Hot Cue 5       Hot Cue 6      Hot Cue 7      Hot Cue 8



     Important: If you have purchased the Serato Flip Expansion Pack, the Parameter < and
     Parameter > buttons have additional functions in Hot Cue Mode and Hot Cue Auto-Loop
     Mode that let you create and control Flips. See Flip Controls to learn more.




                                                                                              9
29. Auto / Roll: This Pad Mode button puts the pads in two modes: Auto-Loop Mode and
    Loop Roll Mode. When the button is unlit, the first press will always select Auto-Loop
    Mode.
     Note: The pad layouts here match the software's default Auto-Loop time division layout. If
     you shift the range of time divisions displayed in the software, the pad layout will change
     to match it.
      • Auto-Loop Mode: Each pad triggers or releases an Auto-Loop of a different length.
        Press and hold Shift and then press the Parameter < or Parameter > button to shift
        the Auto-Loop backward or forward.
      • Loop Roll Mode: Each pad triggers a momentary Loop Roll. Press the Parameter < or
        Parameter > button to change the Loop Roll's time division.


                     1/8-beat        1/4-beat       1/2-beat        1-beat




                      2-beat         4-beat          8-beat        16-beat




30. Loop: This Pad Mode button switches the pads between two banks of saved loops and
    Manual Loop controls. When the button is unlit, the first press will always select the first
    bank.
      • Saved Loop Mode: Pads 1-4 (the top row) return the track to one of your saved loops.
        You create and save a loop using Pads 5-8 (the bottom row). The pad layouts for the
        two banks are identical.
          o To create a loop, press Pad 5 to set the Loop In Point, and then press Pad 6 to
            set the Loop Out Point and trigger the loop.
          o To save a loop, while a loop is active, press any one of Pads 1-4 (the top row) that
            does not have a loop assigned to it. You can do this regardless of how the loop
            was created (Saved Loop Mode, Auto-Loop Mode, Loop Roll Mode, etc.).
          o To trigger a saved loop, press any one of Pads 1-4 (the top row) that has a loop
            saved to it. Press Pad 7 to activate or deactivate the loop. Press Pad 8 to return
            the track to the last triggered loop and reactivate it ("reloop").
          o To delete a saved loop, press and hold Shift and then press the corresponding
            pad (of Pads 1-4).
          o To halve or double the length of a loop, press the Parameter < or Parameter >
            button.
          o To shift a loop backward or forward, press and hold Shift and then press the
            Parameter < or Parameter > button.


                      Loop 1         Loop 2         Loop 3          Loop 4




                    Set Loop In   Set Loop Out    Loop On/Off       Reloop




10
31. Sampler: This Pad Mode button switches the pads between two modes: Sample Player
    Mode and Sample Velocity Trigger Mode. When the button is unlit, the first press will
    always select Sample Player Mode.
     • Sample Player Mode: Pads 1-6 each trigger a sample, which you can assign in the
       software (the volume level is also set in the software). Unlit pads have no sample
       assigned to them. To stop playback of a sample, press and hold Shift and then press
       the corresponding pad (of Pads 1-3 or Pads 4-6).
     • Sample Velocity Trigger Mode: The pads behave identically to the pads in Sample
       Player Mode, except they are velocity-sensitive, so triggered samples will play back at
       a volume level proportional to how heavily you pressed the pads. This mode can give
       your performance more of a "human feel."


                    Sample 1       Sample 2        Sample 3       Play Mode



                                                                   Player
                    Sample 4       Sample 5        Sample 6
                                                                   Repeat



32. Slicer: This Pad Mode button switches the pads between two modes: Slicer Mode and
    Slicer Loop Mode. When the button is unlit, the first press will always select Slicer Mode.
   Important: Your track must have a set Beat Grid for Slicer Mode or Slicer Loop Mode to
   work.
     • Slicer Mode: The eight pads represent eight sequential beats—"Slices"—in the Beat
       Grid. The currently playing Slice is represented by the currently lit pad; the light will
       "move through the pads" as it progresses through each eight-Slice phrase. Press a
       pad to play that Slice—hold it down if you want to keep looping it. When you release
       the pad, the track will resume normal playback from where it would have been if you
       had never pressed it (i.e., as if the track had been playing forward the whole time).
       Press the Parameter < or Parameter > button to decrease or increase the Slice
       quantization. Press and hold Shift and then press the Parameter < or Parameter >
       button to decrease or increase the Slice Domain size.
     • Slicer Loop Mode: The pads behave identically to the pads in Slicer Mode, except the
       eight-Slice phrase will loop rather than moving forward continuously through the track.




                                                                                              11
Flip Controls

If you have purchased the Serato Flip Expansion Pack, you can create and control your Flips
using these commands:
 •   In Hot Cue Mode or Hot Cue Auto-Loop Mode (press Cues to enter either mode):
      o   To record-arm or -disarm Flip recording, press the Parameter < button.
      o   To activate or deactivate Flip looping, press and hold Shift and then press the
          Parameter < button.
      o   To immediately start playing the last-played (or currently playing) Flip, press the
          Parameter > button. If you do this while recording a Flip, the recording will stop and
          that Flip will start playing.
      o   To activate or deactivate the current Flip, press and hold Shift and then press the
          Parameter > button. If the playhead is not yet in the region of the Flip, the Flip will
          start playing once the playhead reaches it.
 •   In Flip Mode (press and hold Shift and press Cues to enter this mode):
      o   In this mode: unlit pads have no Flip assigned to them; solidly lit pads have a Flip
          assigned but are not playing; flashing pads have a Flip assigned and are currently
          playing.
      o   To assign a Flip to a pad, press and hold Pad 8 and press Pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 or 7.
      o   To play an assigned Flip, press Pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 or 7 (if it has a Flip assigned to it).
      o   To immediately stop playback of a Flip, press and hold Shift and then press the
          corresponding pad.
      o   To automatically "snap" the length of a Flip so it aligns with the Beat Grid
          (Loop Snap), press and hold Pad 4 and then press a pad with a Flip assigned to it.
          Important: Your track must have a set Beat Grid for the Loop Snap function to
          work.



                      Flip 1           Flip 2          Flip 3       Loop Snap




                      Flip 4           Flip 5          Flip 6       Assign Flip




12
Navigation Controls
33. Scroll Knob: Use this knob to scroll through lists of tracks, Crates, etc. in the software.
    You can also press it to move between the panels shown in the software.
   Press and hold Shift and turn this knob to quickly scroll.
34. View / Sort by BPM: Press this button to toggle through the available software display
    modes.
   Press and hold Shift and then press this button to sort the Library by BPM.
35. Back / Sort by Song: Press this button to move the selector backward in the software
    panels.
   Press and hold Shift and then press this button to sort the Library by Song.
36. Area / Sort by Key: Press this to toggle through the Files, Browse, Prepare, and History
    panels.
   Press and hold Shift and then press this button to sort the Library by Key.
37. L. Prep / Sort by Artist: Press this button to add a selected track to the list of tracks in the
    Prepare Area in the software.
   Press and hold Shift and then press this button to sort the Library by Artist.
38. Load: Press one of these buttons while a track is selected to assign it to the
    corresponding channel.



Pitch Controls
39. Pitch Fader: Controls the track's playback speed. An LED next to the fader will light up
    when set at 0%.
40. Takeover LEDs: When you select the other Deck with the Deck Select switch, the
    position of the NS6II's Pitch Fader may not match the Pitch setting for that Deck in the
    software. Slowly move the Pitch Fader in the direction indicated by the Takeover LED
    arrow until it turns off. At this point, the Pitch Fader matches the Pitch setting in the
    software and can control it again.
41. Pitch Bend ( + / – ): Press or hold down either of these buttons to temporarily adjust the
    track's playback speed. When released, the track playback will return to the speed
    designated by the Pitch Fader.
   Press and hold Shift and then press these buttons to adjust the Tempo Range forward (+)
   or backward (–).




                                                                                                  13
Effects Controls
42. FX 1, FX 2, FX 3: These buttons have different functions on each Deck depending on the current
     FX Mode: Single-FX Mode or Multi-FX Mode.
      • Single-FX Mode: FX 1 activates or deactivates the effect; FX 2 activates or deactivates the
        first effect parameter (if applicable); FX 3 activates or deactivates the second effect
        parameter (if applicable). Press and hold Shift and press FX 1 to select the desired effect.
        Alternatively, press and hold Shift and then turn the FX Knob under the effect name to move
        quickly through the list.
      • Multi-FX Mode: The buttons activate or deactivate the first, second, and third effects in the
        effects chain, respectively. Press and hold Shift and press one of the buttons to select the
        effect for that point in the effects chain. Alternatively, press and hold Shift and then turn the
        FX Knob under the effect name to move quickly through the list.
43. FX 1 Knob, FX 2 Knob, FX 3 Knob: These knobs have different functions on each Deck
     depending on the current FX Mode: Single-FX Mode or Multi-FX Mode.
      • Single-FX Mode: the FX 1 Knob controls the "wet-dry" balance of the effect; the FX 2 Knob
        controls the first effect parameter; the FX 3 Knob controls the second effect parameter.
        When Touch Mode is activated, touch the FX 1 Knob to activate its effect, and release the
        knob to deactivate it.
      • Multi-FX Mode: The knobs control the "wet-dry" balance of the first, second, and third
        effects in the effects chain, respectively. When Touch Mode is activated, touch a knob to
        activate its effect, and release the knob to deactivate it.
44. Beat / Mode: Tap this button repeatedly at the desired tempo to set the rate of the effects' low-
     frequency oscillators (LFOs). Press and hold this button to reset Beat Multiplier to the Deck's
     BPM.
     Press and hold Shift and then press this button to switch between Single-FX Mode and Multi-FX
     Mode.
45. Beat Knob: Turn this knob to set the Time Division for the selected effects. You can also press it
     to reset the Time Division to 1.
46. FX Assign: Use these buttons to apply Effect A and/or B to the corresponding channel (Each
     effect can be applied to any or all of the four channels).
47. Channel Filter: Turn this knob to adjust the filter on the corresponding channel. The type of filter
     it adjusts will depend on the Filter Mode button.
48. Filter Mode: Press this button to cycle through the Filter Modes, which affect the Channel Filter
     knobs: Off, Filter-Roll Mode, or Filter-FX Mode.
      • Off: When this button is off, the Channel Filter knob will apply and adjust a low-pass filter to
        the corresponding channel when turned counter-clockwise or a high-pass filter when turned
        clockwise.
      • Filter-Roll Mode: Press this button once to activate Filter-Roll Mode (the button will light
        solid red). The Channel Filter knob will apply and adjust a low-pass filter to the
        corresponding channel when turned counter-clockwise or a high-pass filter when turned
        clockwise. In addition, it will apply a Loop Roll to the filter and will decrease in length as the
        knob moves further away from the center position. Press this button once to deactivate
        Filter-Roll Mode.
      • Filter-FX Mode: Press and hold Shift and then press this button to activate Filter-FX Mode
        (the button will flash red). The Channel Filter knob will apply and adjust a low-pass filter to
        the corresponding channel when turned counter-clockwise or a high-pass filter when turned
        clockwise. In addition, it will adjust Parameter 1 of the effects applied to that channel as the
        knob moves further away from the center position. Press this button once to deactivate
        Filter-FX Mode.




14
Display

1. Active Deck: Indicates the currently active deck.
2. Platter Position:     Displays       the current track                   1
   position.
3. Time Bars: Provides a visual reference of the time
                                                                2                           3
   remaining for the current track. When the track is
   almost over, the bars will flash as a warning.
4. Time Elapsed/Remaining: Displays the time                5
   elapsed or time remaining for the current track.
   Press Shift and the Scratch button to change the
                                                                                                9
   display.
5. BPM: Displays the current BPM for the selected
                                                            4
   track.
6. Pitch Adjust: Indicates the direction to move the            6                            8
   Pitch Fader to match the current track’s BPM with
   the track on the opposite deck.                                           7
7. Pitch: Displays the pitch of the current track.
8. Pitch Range: Displays the current pitch range.
9. Keylock: This icon illuminates when Keylock is active for the current deck. See the Serato DJ
   manual to learn about Keylock.



Front Panel




        8   7   6    8   7   6      5                                   4    3    2     1


1. Headphones (1/4" or 1/8"): Connect your 1/4" or 1/8" headphones to this output for cueing and
   mix monitoring.
2. Headphone Volume: Adjusts the volume level of the headphone output.
3. Split Cue: When this switch is in the On position, the headphone audio will be "split" such that
   all channels sent to Cue are mixed to mono and applied to the left headphone channel and the
   Program mix is mixed to mono and applied to the right channel. When the switch is in the Off
   position, Cue and Program audio will be "blended" together.
4. Cue Mix: Turn to mix between Cue and Program in the Headphone channel. When all the way to
   the left, only channels routed to Cue will be heard. When all the way to the right, only the
   Program mix will be heard.
5. Crossfader Contour: Adjusts the slope of the crossfader curve. Turn the knob to the left for a
   smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching). The center position is a typical
   setting for club performances.
6. Mic Level: Adjusts the level of the corresponding Mic Inputs.
7. Mic High: Adjusts the high (treble) frequencies of the audio signal coming from the
   corresponding microphone input.
8. Mic Low: Adjusts the low (bass) frequencies of the audio signal coming from the corresponding
   microphone input.




                                                                                                   15
Rear Panel


                                      7
     1        3
          2       4   6   5   5   6                             8    9    10        11


1. Power Switch: Turns NS6II on and off. Turn on NS6II after all input devices have been
   connected and before you turn on amplifiers. Turn off amplifiers before you turn off NS6II.
2. Power In: Use the included power adapter (12 V DC, 2 A, center-positive) to connect
   NS6II to a power outlet. While the power is switched off, plug the cable into NS6II first, and
   then plug the cable into a power outlet.
3. Cable Restraint: You can secure cables to this restraint to help avoid disconnecting them
   accidentally.
4. USB Port 1/2: Use a standard USB cable (included) to connect each USB port to an
   available USB port on a computer. These 2 ports allow you to control audio from 2
   computers at the same time, which allow for seamless transitions while switching from one
   DJ to another.
     To set a channel to control your computer, set its Input Selector to PC, and set its USB
     selector to the desired port (1 or 2).
5. Line/Phono Inputs (RCA): Connect your audio sources to these inputs. These inputs can
   accept both line and phono-level signals.
6. Line/Phono Switch: Flip this switch to the appropriate position, depending on the device
   connected to the Line/Phono Inputs. If you are using phono-level turntables, set this
   switch to Phono to provide the additional amplification needed for phono-level signals. If
   using a line-level device, such as a CD player or sampler, set this switch to Line.
7. Grounding Terminal: If using phono-level turntables with a grounding wire, connect the
   grounding wire to these terminals. If you experience a low “hum” or “buzz”, this could
   mean that your turntables are not grounded.
     Note: Some turntables have a grounding wire built into the RCA connection and, therefore,
     nothing needs to be connected to the grounding terminal.
8. Mic Inputs (1/4"): Connect 1/4" (6.35 mm) microphones to these inputs. Microphone
   controls are located on the front panel. The inputs’ audio signals are routed directly to the
   Program Mix and Cue Mix.
9. Booth Output (RCA): Use standard RCA cables to connect this output to a booth
   monitoring system. The level of this output is controlled by the Booth knob on the top
   panel.
10. Master Output (RCA): Use standard RCA cables to connect this output to a speaker or
    amplifier system. The level of this output is controlled by the Master knob on the top panel.
11. Master Output (XLR): Connect this low-impedance XLR output to a PA system or
    powered monitors. The level of this output is controlled with the Master knob on the top
    panel.




16
Guía del usuario (Español)
Introducción

Contenido de la caja

NS6II
Cable USB
Adaptador de alimentación
Tarjeta de descarga de software
Guía de inicio rápido
Manual sobre la seguridad y garantía


Soporte

Para obtener la información más reciente acerca de este producto (documentación,
especificaciones técnicas, requisitos de sistema, información de compatibilidad, etc.) y
registrarlo, visite numark.com.
Para soporte adicional del producto, visite numark.com/support.


Instalación
Antes de empezar:
•   Lea el Manual sobre la seguridad y garantía antes de usar el NS6II.
•   Asegúrese de que estén presentes todos los elementos enumerados en Contenido de la
    caja.
•   Retire la película azul de los platos antes de usar el NS6II.


1. Instale los drivers y el software

Usuarios de Windows: Instale los drivers antes de instalar el software.

Drivers (usuarios de Windows): Descargue y instale los drivers más recientes de
numark.com/NS6II. (El sistema le solicitará que conecte el NS6II a la computadora durante la
instalación).

Software: Descargue y instale la versión más reciente de Serato DJ de serato.com.




                                                                                          17
2. ¡Conecte y sea el DJ!

Siga esta secuencia de pasos toda vez que use NS6II:
1. Asegúrese de que todos los dispositivos estén apagados y que todos los faders y perillas
   de ganancia estén ajustados a "cero".
2. Conecte al NS6II las fuentes de entrada (micrófonos, reproductores de CD, etc.) al NS6II.
3. Conecte al NS6II los dispositivos de salida (amplificadores de potencia, submezclador,
   grabadores, etc.).
4. Enchufe todos los dispositivos a las fuentes de alimentación y enciéndalos en el orden
   correcto:
       • Para iniciar la sesión, encienda (1) las fuentes de entrada, (2) el NS6II, (3) los
         dispositivos de salida.
       • Al terminar la sesión, invierta esta operación apagando (1) los dispositivos de salida,
         (2) el NS6II y (3) las fuentes de entrada.
5. Conecte el NS6II a la computadora con el cable USB (incluido) y a sus auriculares.
6. ¡Abra el software Serato DJ y allá va! Para más información acerca de cómo usar Serato
   DJ con NS6II, visite serato.com/dj/support y seleccione Numark NS6II.

Importante:
•     Toque los platos para calibrar el circuito sensible al tacto antes de usar NS6II.
•     Cuando reconecta el NS6II a la computadora, éste recupera las posiciones previas del
      software (por ejemplo, pitch, parámetros de efectos, etc.). Tenga esto en cuenta antes de
      reproducir una pista.


Diagrama de conexión


                   Computadora(s)                                 Amplificador de auditorio


                                               Micrófono




                                             Panel trasero                                 Auriculares
                                                                                          (panel frontal)

    Alimentación




                          Reproductor     Giradiscos                Amplificador de cabina
                            de CD

Los elementos que no se enumeran en Introducción > Contenido de la caja se venden por separado.


18
Transición entre DJ
El NS6II permite que dos ordenadores que ejecutan Serato DJ se conecten simultáneamente a la
unidad. Esto permite que dos DJ toquen al mismo tiempo y facilita el traspaso entre DJ. Con un
ordenador previamente conectado al NS6II y tocando (PC1), realice lo siguiente:
1. Conecte un segundo ordenador (PC2) al puerto USB no utilizado del panel trasero del NS6II.
    Una vez conectado el ordenador, el software mostrará todas las bandejas fuera de línea. El
    primer ordenador continuará controlando aún ambos lados del NS6II.
2. Antes de pasar al PC2 el control de un lado del NS6II, asegúrese de que no se esté
   reproduciendo audio de PC2 en esa bandeja, puesto que va a pasar a estar fuera de línea. A
   continuación, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 de la bandeja
   que no está reproduciendo.
   PC2 controlará ahora los dos canales de ese lado del controlador y tendrá automáticamente
   enfoque de los controles de navegación. Use la perilla de navegación para recorrer la biblioteca
   y añada a la pantalla la pista deseada pulsando el botón Load (Cargar).
3. Reproduzca un tema en la bandeja de PC2 y agréguelo a la mezcla cuando esté listo—ahora
   tendrá audio proveniente de ambos ordenadores en la mezcla. Por ejemplo, mientras PC1 utiliza
   la bandeja A (y los controles del mezclador de los canales 1 y 3) para controlar su ordenador,
   PC2 también puede utilizar la bandeja B (y los controles del mezclador de los canales 2 y 4) para
   controlar su ordenador.
   Con un ordenador controlando cada bandeja, pulse el botón Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 de la
   bandeja que no está reproduciendo para conmutar el control de la perilla de navegación.
4. Baje progresivamente el volumen del audio que proviene del ordenador de PC1y aumente
   progresivamente el audio que proviene del ordenador de PC2. Cuando solo quede en la mezcla
   el audio del ordenador de PC2, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón Browse Focus /
   PC1/PC2 de la bandeja que no está reproduciendo. Ahora, PC2 está utilizando las bandejas
   tanto A como B para controlar su ordenador. En este momento, puede desconectar el
   ordenador de PC1 del NS6II.
Nota: Si una bandeja esta siendo utilizada ya por un ordenador, la bandeja virtual del ordenador (en
Serato DJ) se pondrá negra y mostrará IN USE (En uso).


           Paso 1                            Paso 2                             Paso 3




                                                                                                  19
Características

Panel superior
                                                17       34         35    33    36        37        16
     5         43     43    43            45                                                              43         43       43    45          5

                42     42       42         44            38     38               38        38            42         42       42    44

         3                                      4          46     46           46        46         4                                      48
                            24                                                                                       24
                                                     6     7         7         7         7      6
         25                                                                                                                                25
                                                     8     9    8    9    8    9     8   9      8

         22                                               10         10        10        10                                                22

                                                          11         11        11        11
     39                     1                                                                                            1                  39
                                                          47         47        47        47


                                          18             13 14 13 14 13 14 13 14                         18
              40                                                                                                                      40
                23                              2                                                   2                               23
                                                          12         12        12        12
                 28   29    30       31    32                                                            28    29    30      31    32
                                                     21                                       21
         27                                          20                                       20                                           27
                            26                                                                                       26
         41                                                               15                                                               41
                                                     19                                       19



Términos útiles:
•        Puntero de audio: Posición actual de la pista desde donde se reproduce el audio. Cuando
         usted selecciona una pista y comienza a reproducir, el puntero de audio arranca habitualmente
         al comienzo y se detiene al final.
•        Punto de cue: Posición marcada en una pista, que el software almacena permanentemente. Es
         posible establecer, volver o eliminar puntos de cue con los Controles de Cue.
•        Punto de cue temporal: Posición marcada en la pista que permanece sólo mientras la pista
         está cargada en la bandeja. Es posible establecer y volver al punto de cue temporal con el botón
         Cue.


Controles generales
1. Pantalla: Use esta pantalla para ver la información relacionada con la pista actual. Consulte
         Pantalla para más información.
2. Función secundaria: Mantenga pulsado este botón para acceder a las funciones secundarias
         (en letra roja) de los demás controles del NS6II.
3. Modo táctil: Pulse este botón para cambiar el modo táctil. Pulse una vez para acceder a las
         funciones táctiles capacitivas de las perillas FX 1, FX 2 y FX 3 del NS6II. Pulse una segunda vez
         para acceder a las funciones táctiles capacitivas de estas perillas más las perillas del
         ecualizador (Channel High [Altas], Channel Mid [Medias] y Channel Low [Bajas]). Estas
         funciones son momentáneas, no de "enganche".
4. Bandeja virtual: Se usa para seleccionar qué bandeja virtual del software es controlada por esa
         bandeja del hardware. La bandeja A puede controlar las bandejas virtuales 1 ó 3. La bandeja B
         puede controlar las bandejas virtuales 2 ó 4.
5. Browse Focus / PC1/PC2: Pulse este botón para desplazar el enfoque de la perilla Scroll de un
         ordenador conectado al otro.
         Mantenga pulsado Shift para seleccionar si la bandeja controlará el ordenador conectado al
         Puerto USB 1 o al Puerto USB 2. Recuerde ajustar el selector de entrada del canal a PC si
         desea reproducir el audio de esa capa del software.
         Si solo está conectado un ordenador, este botón no tendrá ninguna función.

20
Controles del mezclador
6. Selector de entrada: Coloque este conmutadora en la fuente de audio deseada de este
   canal—PC (una pista que se reproduce en esa bandeja virtual del software) o Line (un
   dispositivo conectado a las entradas de línea/fonográfica) en el panel trasero del NS6II).
   Nota: Tenga en cuenta que los conmutadores selectores Line/Phono del panel trasero
   también se deben colocar correctamente.
7. Ajuste de ganancia: Ajusta el nivel de audio previo al fader y al ecualizador del canal
   correspondiente en el software.
8. Medidores con LED: Monitorean el nivel de audio de la salida de programa en el canal
   correspondiente.
9. Altas (de canal): Ajusta las altas frecuencias (agudos) del audio que se reproduce en el
   canal correspondiente.
10. Medios (de canal): Ajusta las frecuencias medias del audio que se reproduce en el canal
    correspondiente.
11. Bajas (de canal): Ajusta las bajas frecuencias (graves) del audio que se reproduce en el
    canal correspondiente.
12. Fader canal: Ajusta el nivel de audio del canal correspondiente en el software.
13. PFL: Pulse este botón para enviar esta señal de nivel pre-fader al canal de cue para
    monitoreo. Cuando está pulsado, el botón se enciende. Al pulsar un botón PFL a la vez,
    hace cue en ese canal solamente (y desactiva el monitoreo de PFL de los demás canales).
    Para hacer cue en varios canales simultáneamente, pulse los botones PFL de esos
    canales al mismo tiempo.
14. Asignación de crossfader: Aplica el audio que se reproduce en el canal correspondiente
    a cualquiera de los lados del crossfader (A o B), o puentea el crossfader y envía el audio
    directamente a la mezcla programa (centro, Off).
15. Crossfader: Combina el audio entre los canales asignados a los lados izquierdo y
    derecho del crossfader.
   Nota: El usuario puede reemplazar el crossfader en caso de que se desgaste.
   Simplemente, retire el panel frontal y luego los tornillos que lo mantienen sujeto.
16. Volumen maestro: Ajusta el volumen de salida de la mezcla de programa.
17. Volumen cabina (booth): Ajusta el volumen de salida de la mezcla de salida para cabina
    (Booth Output).




                                                                                            21
Controles de la reproducción
18. Plato: Controla el puntero de audio en el software.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego mueva el plato para desplazarse rápidamente por la pista.
19. Reproducir / Pausa: Con este botón se pone en pausa o reanuda la reproducción.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para que la pista "tartamudee" desde el último
     punto de cue.
20. Cue: Cuando la bandeja se pone en pausa, puede establecer un punto de cue temporal
    moviendo el plato para colocar el puntero de audio en el lugar deseado y pulsando luego
    el botón Cue.
     Durante la reproducción, puede pulsar el botón Cue para que la pista vuelva a este punto
     de cue temporal. (Si no estableció un punto de cue temporal, volverá al principio de la
     pista.)
     Si la bandeja está en pausa, puede mantener pulsado el botón Cue para reproducir la
     pista desde el punto de cue temporal. Al soltar el botón Cue, la pista vuelve al punto de
     cue temporal y se pone en pausa. Para continuar la reproducción sin volver al punto de
     cue temporal, mantenga pulsado el botón Cue, luego mantenga pulsado el botón de
     reproducir y luego suelte ambos botones.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para volver al comienzo de la pista.
21. Sincronismo: Pulse este botón para hacer coincidir automáticamente el tempo de la
    bandeja correspondiente con el tempo y la fase de la bandeja opuesta. Mantenga pulsado
    Shift y pulse este botón para desactivar el sincronismo.
22. Bleep / Keylock: Pulse este botón para invertir la reproducción de audio de la pista en la
    bandeja correspondiente. Pulse este botón de nuevo para reanudar la reproducción
    normal desde donde lo haría si nunca se hubiera activado la función Bleep (es decir, si la
    pista se hubiera estado reproduciendo hacia adelante todo el tiempo).
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para activar o desactivar Keylock. La tonalidad
     del tema se enganchará a la posición en que esté el fader de pitch cuando se activa
     Keylock. Esta función permite cambiar la velocidad del tema sin cambiar la tonalidad.
23. Rayado: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar el modo Rayado. En este modo,
    puede tocar la parte central del plato para rayar el audio como cuando mueve un
    giradiscos. Si el modo está desactivado, la parte central del plato produce inflexión de
    pitch (pitch bend) cuando se hace girar.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego pulse este botón para conmutar entre el tiempo
     transcurrido y el tiempo restante en la visualización de la rueda de avance de la bandeja
     correspondiente.
24. Tira de búsqueda: La longitud de esta tira representa la longitud de la pista completa.
    Coloque su dedo en un punto de este sensor para saltar a ese punto en la pista. (Si desea
    desplazarse a lo largo de una pista, recomendamos que use la computadora en vez de
    pasar el dedo a lo largo de la tira.)
25. Resbalar / Cuantizar: Cuando se usa la grilla de beats del software, mantenga pulsado
    Slip (Resbalar) y mueva el plato para "hacer resbalar" (es decir, desplazar o deslizar) la
    grilla de beats completa a la izquierda o la derecha. Esta función es útil cuando la grilla de
    beats está ligeramente desalineada con las transiciones de la pista. Para más información,
    consulte el Manual de referencia de Serato DJ.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón Slip de la pantalla A (lado izquierdo) para
     habilitar o deshabilitar Quantize (Cuantificador) de la capa 1 o 3. Mantenga pulsado Shift y
     pulse el botón Slip de la pantalla B (lado derecho) para habilitar o deshabilitar Quantize
     (Cuantificador) de la capa 2 o 4. Cuando se activa, al establecer y disparar cues y bucles
     la grilla de beats se hace coincidir.

22
Controles del modo de pad
26. Pads: Estos pads tienen distintas funciones en cada bandeja en función del modo de pad
    activado. Son sensibles a la velocidad (en ciertos modos solamente), duraderos y fáciles
    de tocar. En esta sección, cuando hagamos referencia a pads específicos, utilizaremos los
    números que se muestran aquí.



                     Pad 1          Pad 2         Pad 3          Pad 4



                     Pad 5          Pad 6         Pad 7          Pad 8




27. Parámetro < / >: Utilice estos botones para las diversas funciones en cada modo de pad.
    Mantenga pulsado Shift (Función secundaria) y utilice estos botones para acceder a los
    parámetros secundarios.
   Si adquirió la expansión Serato Pitch N’ Time, al mantener pulsado Shift y pulsar estos
   botones, se ajustará la tonalidad de la pista actual hacia abajo (<) o hacia arriba (>).
28. Cues: Este botón de modo de pad cambia los pads entre dos modos: Modo Hot Cue (Cue
    rápido) y Loop automático con cue rápido. Cuando el botón está apagado, la primera
    pulsación selecciona siempre el modo Cue rápido.
      •   Modo Cue rápido: Cada pad asigna un punto de cue rápido o hace que la pista
          vuelva a ese punto de cue rápido. Cuando un pad está apagado, puede asignar un
          punto de cue rápido pulsándolo en el punto deseado de su pista. Una vez asignado,
          el pad se enciende. Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse un pad para eliminar su punto
          de cue rápido asociado.
      •   Modo Loop automático con cue rápido: Cada pad asigna un punto de cue rápido
          o hace que la pista vuelva a ese punto de cue rápido pero, en ambos, casos, crea
          también un loop automático en ese punto. La longitud de los loops automáticos se
          configura en el software, pero usted puede aumentarla o reducirla con el botón
          Parameter < (Parámetro <) o Parameter > (Parámetro >).



                  Cue rápido 1   Cue rápido 2   Cue rápido 3   Cue rápido 4




                  Cue rápido 5   Cue rápido 6   Cue rápido 7   Cue rápido 8




    Importante: Si ha adquirido el Serato Flip Expansion Pack, los botones Parameter < o
    Parameter > tienen funciones adicionales en los modos Cue rápido y Loop automático
    con cue rápido que le permiten crear y controlar los Flips. Consulte Controles de flip
    para aprender más.




                                                                                           23
29. Automático / Regreso: Este botón de modo de pad cambia los pads entre dos modos:
    Loop automático y loop con regreso. Cuando el botón está apagado, la primera pulsación
    selecciona siempre el modo de loop automático.
    Nota: Estas disposiciones de pads coinciden con el esquema de división de tiempo de
    loop automático por defecto. Si desplaza el rango de divisiones de tiempo mostrado en el
    software, la disposición del pad cambia para coincidir con él.
       • Modo de loop automático: Cada pad dispara o libera un loop automático de una
          longitud diferente. Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón Parameter <
          (Parámetro <) o Parameter > (Parámetro >) para desplazar el loop automático hacia
          atrás o adelante.
       • Modo de loop con regreso: Cada pad dispara un loop con regreso momentáneo.
          Pulse el botón Parameter < o Parameter > para cambiar la división de tiempo del
          loop con regreso.


                    1/8 beat        1/4 beat       1/2 beat        1 beat




                     2 beat         4 beat          8 beat        16 beat



30. Loop (Bucle): Este botón de modo de pad alterna los pads entre dos bancos de loops
    guardados y controles de loop. Cuando el botón está apagado, la primera pulsación
    selecciona siempre el primer banco.
      • Modo Loop guardado: Los pads 1-4 (la fila superior) hacen que la pista vuelva a
          uno de sus loops guardados. Puede crear y guardar un loop utilizando los pads 5-8
          (la fila inferior). Las disposiciones de pads de los dos bancos son idénticas.
            o Para crear un loop, pulse el pad 5 para establecer el punto de entrada del
                 loop, y a continuación pulse el pad 6 para establecer el punto de salida y
                 dispare el loop.
            o Para guardar un loop, mientras está activo, pulse cualquiera de los pads 1-4
                 (la fila superior) que no tenga un loop asignado. Puede hacer esto
                 independientemente de la forma en la que se creó el loop (modo Loop
                 guardado, modo Loop automático, modo Loop con regreso, etc.).
            o Para disparar un loop guardado, pulse cualquiera de los pads 1-4 (la fila
                 superior) que tenga un loop guardado. Pulse el pad 7 para activar o desactivar
                 el loop. Pulse el pad 8 para que la pista vuelva al último loop disparado y lo
                 reactive ("repetición de loop").
            o Para eliminar un loop guardado, mantenga pulsado Shift y presione el pad
                 correspondiente (de los pads 1-4).
            o Para duplicar o dividir a la mitad la longitud de un loop, pulse el botón
                 Parameter < o Parameter >.
            o Para desplazar un loop hacia adelante o hacia atrás, mantenga pulsado
                 Shift y pulse el botón Parameter < o Parameter >.


                     Loop 1         Loop 2         Loop 3          Loop 4



                   Entrada del     Salida del      Activar /     Repetición
                      loop           loop         desactivar      de loop
                                                    loop



24
31. Muestreador: Este botón de modo de pad cambia los pads entre dos modos:
    Reproductor de muestras y disparo por velocidad de muestras. Cuando el botón está
    apagado, la primera pulsación selecciona siempre el modo Reproductor de muestras.
     •   Modo Reproductor de muestras: Los pads 1 a 6 disparan cada uno una muestra,
         que usted puede asignar en el software (el nivel de volumen también se ajusta en el
         software). Los pads apagados no tienen muestra asignada. Para detener la
         reproducción de una muestra, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el pad
         correspondiente (pads 1-3 o pads 4-6).
     •   Modo de disparo por velocidad de muestras: Los pads se comportan en forma
         idéntica a los pads del modo Reproductor de muestras, excepto en que son
         sensibles a la velocidad, de modo que las muestras disparadas se reproducirán a
         un nivel de volumen proporcional a la fuerza con que presione los pads. Este modo
         puede brindar a su interpretación una "sensación humana" más intensa.


                                                                   Modo
                  Muestra 1       Muestra 2      Muestra 3
                                                                reproductor


                                                               Repetición de
                  Muestra 4       Muestra 5      Muestra 6
                                                                reproductor




32. Cortador: Este botón de modo de pad cambia los pads entre dos modos: Cortador y loop
    del cortador. Cuando el botón está apagado, la primera pulsación selecciona siempre el
    modo cortador.
   Importante: Su pista debe tener configurada una grilla de bits para que los modos
   cortador o loop del cortador funcionen.
     •   Modo cortador: Los ocho pads representan ocho beats secuenciales—"cortes"—
         en la grilla de beats. El pad iluminado representa el corte que se está reproduciendo
         en ese momento. La luz "recorre los pads" a medida que progresa a lo largo de
         cada una de las frases de ocho cortes. Presione un pad para reproducir ese corte—
         manténgalo presionado si desea que mantenerlo en un loop. Cuando suelte el pad,
         se reanuda la reproducción normal de la pista desde donde habría estado si nunca
         lo hubiera presionado (es decir, como si la pista hubiera estado reproduciéndose en
         avance todo el tiempo).
         Pulse el botón Parameter < (Parámetro <) o Parameter > (Parámetro >) para
         reducir o aumentar la cuantización del corte. Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el
         botón Parameter < o Parameter > para reducir o aumentar el tamaño del dominio
         del corte.
     •   Modo loop del cortador: Los pads se comportan de manera idéntica al modo
         cortador, excepto que la frase de ocho cortes realiza un loop en vez de avanzar
         continuamente por la pista.


                    Corte 1        Corte 2        Corte 3        Corte 4




                    Corte 5        Corte 6        Corte 7        Corte 8




                                                                                            25
Controles de flip
Si ha adquirido el Serato Flip Expansion Pack, puede crear y controlar sus flips mediante los
siguientes comandos:
 •   En modo Cue rápido o Loop automático con cue rápido (pulse Cues para ingresar a
     cualquiera de los modos):
      o   Para armar para grabación o desarmar para grabación de flip, pulse el botón
          Parameter < (Parámetro <).
      o   Para activar o desactivar el loop del flip, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón
          Parameter < (Parámetro <).
      o   Para comenzar a reproducir inmediatamente el último flip reproducido (o el
          que se está reproduciendo actualmente), pulse el botón Parameter > (Parámetro
          >). Si hace esto mientras está grabando un flip, la grabación se interrumpirá y ese
          flip comenzará a reproducirse.
      o   Para activar o desactivar el flip actual, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón
          Parameter > (Parámetro >). Si el cabezal de reproducción no llegó aún a la región
          del flip, el flip comenzará a reproducirse cuando el cabezal llegue hasta él.
 •   En modo Flip (mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse Cue para entrar a este modo):
      o   En este modo: los pads apagados no tienen flips asignados; los pads iluminados
          tienen un flip asignado pero no se está reproduciendo; los pads que parpadean
          tienen un flip asignado y que se está reproduciendo actualmente.
      o   Para asignar un flip a un pad, mantenga pulsado el Pad 8 y pulse el pad 1, 2, 3, 5,
          6 o 7.
      o   Para reproducir un flip asignado, pulse el pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 o 7 (si tiene un flip
          asignado).
      o   Para detener inmediatamente la reproducción de un flip, mantenga pulsado
          Shift y pulse el pad correspondiente.
      o   Para "encajar" automáticamente la longitud de un flip para que coincida con la
          grilla de beats (encaje de loop), mantenga pulsado el Pad 4 y pulse un pad con un
          flip asignado.
          Importante: Su pista debe tener configurada una grilla de beats para que funcione
          la función de encaje de loop.



                                                                Encaje de
                     Flip 1         Flip 2         Flip 3
                                                                  loop



                     Flip 4         Flip 5         Flip 6      Asignar Flip




26
Controles de navegación
33. Perilla de desplazamiento: Use esta perilla para desplazarse por las listas de pistas,
    cajas de discos, etc. en el software. También es posible pulsarlo para moverse entre los
    paneles que se muestran en el software.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y luego gire esta perilla para recorrer rápidamente.
34. Vista / Ordenar por BPM: Pulse este botón para alternar entre los modos de visualización
    disponibles del software.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para ordenar la biblioteca por BPM.
35. Atrás / Ordenar por canción: Pulse este botón para desplazar el selector hacia atrás en
    los paneles de software.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para ordenar la biblioteca por canción.
36. Área / Ordenar por tono: Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para ordenar la
    biblioteca por tono.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para ordenar la biblioteca por tono.
37. L. Prep / Ordenar por artista: Pulse este botón para agregar una pista seleccionada a la
    lista de pistas del área de preparación del software.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para ordenar la biblioteca por artista.
38. Carga: Pulse uno de estos botones cuando haya una pista seleccionada para agregarla a
    la bandeja correspondiente.


Controles de pitch
39. Fader de pitch: Controla la velocidad de reproducción de la cinta. El LED que está junto
    al fader se enciende cuando se ajusta a 0%.
40. LED de toma de control: Cuando usted selecciona la otra bandeja con el conmutador
    bandeja virtual, la posición del fader de pitch del NS6II puede no coincidir con el ajuste
    de pitch correspondiente a esa bandeja en el software. Mueva lentamente el fader de
    pitch en el sentido indicado con la flecha de los LED de toma de control hasta que se
    apague. En ese punto, el fader de pitch iguala el ajuste de pitch del software y puede
    controlarlo nuevamente.
41. Inflexión de pitch ( + / – ): Pulse o retenga pulsados cualquiera de estos botones para
    ajustar temporalmente la velocidad de reproducción de la cinta. Cuando se suelta, la
    reproducción de la cinta vuelve a la velocidad designada por el fader de pitch.
   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse estos botones para ajustar el rango de tempo hacia
   adelante (+) o hacia atrás (–).




                                                                                            27
Controles de efectos
42. FX 1, FX 2, FX 3: Estos botones tienen distintas funciones en cada bandeja en función del modo
    de efectos activado.
      •       Modo de efecto único: FX 1 activa o desactiva el efecto; FX 2 activa o desactiva el primer
              parámetro del efecto (si aplica); FX 3 activa o desactiva el segundo parámetro del efecto (si
              aplica). Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse FX 1 para seleccionar el efecto deseado. Como
              alternativa, mantenga pulsado Shift y gire la perilla FX bajo el nombre del efecto para
              recorrer la lista rápidamente.
      •       Modo de efectos múltiples: Los botones activan o desactivan el primero, segundo y
              tercer efecto de la cadena de efectos, respectivamente. Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse
              uno de los botones para seleccionar el efecto correspondiente a ese punto de la cadena de
              efectos. Como alternativa, mantenga pulsado Shift y gire la perilla FX bajo el nombre del
              efecto para recorrer la lista rápidamente.
43. Perillas FX 1, FX 2 y FX 3: Estas perillas tienen distintas funciones en cada bandeja en función
    del modo de efectos activado.
      •       Modo de efecto único: la perilla FX 1 controla el balance “húmedo-seco” del efecto, la
              perilla FX 2 controla el primer parámetro del efecto y la perilla FX 3 controla el segundo
              parámetro dei efecto. Cuando está activado el modo táctil, toque la perilla FX1 para
              activar su efecto, y suelte la perilla para desactivarlo.
      •       Modo efectos múltiples: Los botones activan o desactivan el balance “húmedo/seco” del
              primero, segundo y tercer efecto de la cadena de efectos, respectivamente. Cuando está
              activado el modo táctil, toque una perilla para activar su efecto, y suelte la perilla para
              desactivarlo.
44. Beat / Modo: Toque este botón repetidamente al tempo deseado para ajustar la frecuencia de los
    osciladores de baja frecuencia (LFO) del efecto. Mantenga pulsado este botón para reiniciar el
    multiplicador de beats a las BPM de la bandeja.
     Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para cambiar entre el modo de efecto único y el modo
     multiefectos.
45. Perilla de beats: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la división de tiempo de los efectos
    seleccionados.
46. Asignación de efectos: Use estos botones para aplicar los efectos A y/o B al canal
    correspondiente. (Cada efecto puede aplicarse a uno o todos los cuatro canales.
47. Filtro de canal: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el filtro en el canal correspondiente. El tipo de filtro
    que ajusta depende del botón Filter Mode (Modo de filtro).
48. Modo de filtro: Pulse este botón para cambiar el modo de filtro (desactivado, modo de filtro con
    regreso o modo de filtro-efecto), que afecta a las perillas de filtro de canal.
          •    Desactivado: Cuando este botón está desactivado, la perilla de filtro de canal aplica y
               ajusta un filtro pasabajos al canal correspondiente cuando se gira en sentido antihorario o
               un filtro pasaaltos cuando se gira en sentido horario.
          •    Modo de filtro-redoble: Pulse este botón una vez para activar el modo de filtro con regreso
               (el botón se ilumina con luz roja fija). La perilla de filtro de canal aplica y ajusta un filtro
               pasabajos al canal correspondiente cuando se gira en sentido antihorario o un filtro pasaaltos
               cuando se gira en sentido horario. Además, aplica un loop con regreso al filtro, cuya longitud
               disminuye a medida que la perilla se aleja de la posición central. Pulse este botón una vez
               para desactivar el modo de filtro con regreso.
          •    Modo de filtro-efecto: Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para activar el modo de
               filtro-efecto (el botón destella con luz roja). La perilla de filtro de canal aplica y ajusta un
               filtro pasabajos al canal correspondiente cuando se gira en sentido antihorario o un filtro
               pasaaltos cuando se gira en sentido horario. Además, ajusta el parámetro 1 de los efectos
               aplicados a ese canal a medida que la perilla se aleja de la posición central. Pulse este
               botón una vez para desactivar el modo de filtro-efecto.




28
Pantalla

1. Bandeja activa: Indica la bandeja actualmente
   activa.
                                                                          1
2. Posición del plato: Muestra la posición actual de
   la pista.
                                                               2                           3
3. Barras de tiempo: Brinda una referencia visual del
   tiempo restante para la pista actual. Cuando la
   pista está por terminar, las barras parpadearán         5
   como advertencia.
4. Tiempo transcurrido/restante: Muestra el tiempo
                                                                                               9
   transcurrido o restante de la pista actual. Pulse los
   botones Shift y Scratch para cambiar la pantalla.
                                                           4
5. BPM: Muestra los BPM actuales de la pista actual.
6. Ajuste de tono (pitch): Indica la dirección en la           6                           8
   cual mover el fader de tono para hacer coincidir
   los BPM de la pista actual con la pista en la                           7
   bandeja opuesta.
7. Pitch (Tono): Muestra el tono de la pista actual.
8. Pitch range (Rango de tono): Muestra el rango del tono actual.
9. Bloqueo de tonalidad: Este icono se enciende cuando el bloqueo de tonalidad se encuentra
   activado para la bandeja actual. Consulte el manual Serato DJ Intro para aprender sobre el
   bloqueo de tonalidad.


Panel frontal




        8   7   6   8    7   6    5                                   4    3   2       1


1. Auriculares (6,35 mm o 3,5 mm): Conecte sus auriculares de 6,35 mm o 3,5 mm (1/4 pulg. o
   1/8 pulg.) a esta salida para búsqueda de punto inicial (cue) y monitoreo de la mezcla.
2. Volumen de auriculares: Ajusta el nivel de volumen de la salida para auriculares.
3. Split Cue: Cuando este interruptor está en posición On, se "divide" el audio de los auriculares
   de modo que todos los canales enviados a cue se mezclan a mono y se aplican a la salida del
   auricular izquierdo y la salida de programa se mezcla a mono y se aplica al canal derecho.
   Cuando está en posición Off, el audio de cue y programa se "combinan".
4. Combinación de cue: Gírelo para mezclar cue y programa en el canal de auriculares. Cuando
   está en el extremo izquierdo, sólo se oyen los canales aplicados a cue. Cuando se gira
   totalmente a la derecha, se oye sólo la mezcla del programa.
5. Pendiente del crossfader: Permite ajustar la pendiente de la curva del crossfader. Ajuste este
   interruptor a la izquierda para una fusión suave (mezcla) o a la derecha para un corte abrupto
   (rayado).
6. Ganancia del micrófono: Ajusta el nivel de audio del canal micrófono correspondiente.
7. Treble del micrófono: Ajusta las altas frecuencias (agudos) del audio en el canal micrófono
   correspondiente.
8. Graves del micrófono: Ajusta las bajas frecuencias (graves) del audio en el canal micrófono
   correspondiente.




                                                                                                29
Panel trasero


                                      7
     1        3
          2       4   6   5   5   6                            8    9     10       11


1. Interruptor de encendido: Enciende y apaga el NS6II. Encienda el NS6II después de
   desconectar todos los dispositivos de entrada y antes de encender los amplificadores.
   Apague los amplificadores antes de apagar el NS6II.
2. Entrada de alimentación: Use el adaptador de alimentación incluido (12 V DC, 2 A,
   centro positivo) para conectar el NS6II a un tomacorriente alimentado. Mientras está
   desconectada la alimentación eléctrica, enchufe la fuente de alimentación al NS6II
   primero, y luego al tomacorriente.
3. Presilla del cable: Puede fijar un cable a esta presilla para evitar que se desenchufe
   accidentalmente.
4. Puertos USB 1/2: Utilice un cable USB (incluido) para conectar cada puerto USB a un
   puerto USB disponible en un ordenador. Estos 2 puertos le permiten controlar el audio
   proveniente desde 2 ordenadores al mismo tiempo, lo que permite transiciones fluidas al
   pasar de un DJ a otro.
     Para ajustar el canal a fin de que controle su ordenador, ajuste su selector de entrada a
     PC y su selector de USB al puerto deseado (USB1 o USB2).
5. Entradas de línea/fonográfica (RCA): Conecte sus fuentes de audio a estas entradas.
   Estas entradas pueden aceptar señales de nivel de línea y fonográfico.
6. Interruptor de entrada de línea/fonográfica: Coloque este conmutador en la posición
   apropiada, en función del dispositivo conectado a las entradas de línea/fonográfica. Si
   usa giradiscos de nivel fonográfico, coloque este conmutador en Phono para proporcionar
   la amplificación adicional necesaria para las señales de este nivel. Si usa un dispositivo de
   nivel de línea, tal como un reproductor de CD o muestreador, coloque este conmutador en
   Line.
7. Terminal de tierra: Si usa giradiscos de nivel fonográfico con cable de conexión a tierra,
   asegúrese de conectar dicho cable a estos terminales. Si se experimenta un zumbido
   grave, puede significar que sus giradiscos no están conectados a tierra.
     Nota: Algunos giradiscos tienen el cable de conexión a tierra incorporado a la conexión
     RCA y, por lo tanto, no es necesario conectar nada al terminal de tierra.
8. Entradas de micrófono (6,35 mm / 1/4 pulg): Conecte micrófonos de 6,35 mm (1/4 pulg.)
   a estas entradas. Los controles de micrófono se encuentran en el panel frontal. Las
   señales de audio de entrada se encaminan directamente a la mezcla de programa y la
   mezcla de cue.
9. Salida para cabina (RCA): Use cables RCA estándar para conectar esta salida a un
   sistema de monitoreo de cabina. El nivel de esta salida se controla con la perilla Booth del
   panel superior.
10. Salida maestra (RCA): Use cables RCA estándar para conectar esta salida maestra a un
    sistema de altavoces o amplificador. El nivel de esta salida se controla con la perilla
    olumen maestro del panel superior.
11. Salida maestra (XLR): Esta salida XLR de baja impedancia sirve para conectar a un
    sistema de megafonía o monitores alimentados. El nivel de esta salida se controla con la
    perilla volumen maestro del panel superior.




30
Guide d’utilisation (Français)
Présentation

Contenu de la boîte

NS6II
Câble USB
Adaptateur d’alimentation
Carte de téléchargement de logiciel
Guide d’utilisation rapide
Consignes de sécurité et informations concernant la garantie


Assistance

Pour les toutes dernières informations concernant la documentation, les spécifications
techniques, la configuration requise, la compatibilité et l’enregistrement du produit, veuillez
visiter numark.com.
Pour toute assistance supplémentaire, veuillez visiter le site numark.com/support.


Démarrage
Avant de commencer :
•   Lire le livret des Consignes de sécurité et informations concernant la garantie avant
    d'utiliser le NS6II.
•   Assurez-vous que tous les articles énumérés dans la section Contenu de la boîte de ce
    guide sont inclus.
•   Retirez la pellicule bleue des plateaux avant l’utilisation le NS6II.


1. Installez les pilotes et le logiciel

Utilisateur de Windows : Installez les pilotes avant le logiciel.

Pilotes (Utilisateur de Windows) : Téléchargez et installez les dernières versions des pilotes
du site numark.com/NS6II. (Vous serez invité à brancher le NS6II à votre ordinateur durant
l'installation.)

Logiciel : Téléchargez et installez la dernière version de Serato DJ du site serato.com.




                                                                                             31
2. Faites tous les branchements puis commencer à faire du DJing!

Suivez ces étapes dans l'ordre toutes les fois que vous employez le NS6II:
1. Assurez-vous que tous les appareils sont hors tension et que tous les potentiomètres et
   commandes de gain soient réglés à « zéro ».
2. Branchez les sources d'entrée audio (microphones, lecteurs de disques compacts, etc.) au
   NS6II.
3. Branchez les dispositifs de sortie audio (l'amplificateur, sub-mixer, enregistreurs, etc.) au
   NS6II.
4. Branchez tous les appareils à des prises secteurs, puis les mettre sous tension dans
   l'ordre approprié.
     • Lors de la mise en marche, commencez par allumer (1) les sources d'entrée, (2) le
        NS6II, puis (3) les appareils de sortie.
     • Pour mettre hors tension, toujours inverser l'opération, commencez par fermer (1) les
        appareils de sortie, (2) le NS6II, puis (3) les sources d'entrée.
5. Branchez le NS6II à votre ordinateur à l'aide du câble USB fourni puis à votre casque
   d'écoute.
6. Il ne vous reste plus qu'à lancer l'application Serato DJ! Pour plus d'informations sur
   l'utilisation de Serato DJ avec le NS6II, visitez serato.com/dj/support et sélectionnez
   Numark NS6II.

Important :
•   Touchez les plateaux pour calibrer le circuit tactile avant d'utiliser NS6II.
•   Lors du rebranchement du NS6II à votre ordinateur, le NS6II aura gardé en mémoire tous
    les réglages du logiciel (p. ex. tonalité, paramètres d’effet, etc.). Gardez ceci en tête avant
    de lancer une piste.


Schéma de connexion

                 Ordinateur(s)                                       Haut-parleurs

                                            Microphone




                                          Panneau arrière                            Casque d’écoute
                                                                                     (panneau avant)

 Alimentation




                       Lecteur CD     Table tournante                   Moniteurs

Les éléments qui ne figurent pas dans Présentation > Contenu de la boîte sont vendus séparément.

32
Transition d’un DJ à l’autre

Le NS6II permet à deux ordinateurs équipés de Serato DJ de se connecter simultanément. Ceci
permet à deux DJ de jouer en même temps et facilite la transition d’un DJ à un autre. Lorsqu’un
ordinateur est déjà branché au NS6II et est en cours de lecture (PC1), effectuez les opérations
suivantes :
1. Branchez le deuxième ordinateur (PC2) sur le port USB inutilisé sur le panneau arrière du NS6II.
    Une fois que l’ordinateur s’est connecté, le logiciel affichera tous les modules en mode hors
    connexion. Le premier ordinateur commandera toujours les deux côtés de NS6II.
2. Avant de laisser PC2 commander un des côtés du NS6II, assurez-vous qu’il n'y a pas de piste
    en cours de lecture sur ce module provenant de l’ordinateur PC2, car celui-ci passera en mode
    hors connexion. Maintenez ensuite la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyez sur la touche Browse
    Focus/PC1/PC2 du module qui n'est pas en cours lecture.
    PC2 commandera maintenant les deux canaux de ce côté du contrôleur, et aura
    automatiquement les commandes de navigation. Utilisez le bouton Browse pour parcourir la
    bibliothèque, puis ajouter la piste souhaitée sur le module en appuyant sur le bouton Load.
3. Lancez la lecture d’une piste sur le module PC2 et mixez-la lorsque vous êtes prêt. Vous devriez
    maintenant entendre le signal provenant des deux ordinateurs dans votre mix. Par exemple,
    alors que PC1 utilise le module A (et les commandes de la console de mixage pour les canaux 1
    et 3) pour commander son ordinateur, PC2 peut également utiliser le module B (et les
    commandes de la console de mixage pour les canaux 2 et 4) pour commander son ordinateur.
    Alors que chaque ordinateur commande un module, appuyez sur la touche Browse
    Focus/PC1/PC2 du module qui n'est pas en cours lecture afin de basculer les commandes du
    bouton Browse.
4. Transitionnez progressivement l’audio qui joue sur l’ordinateur PC1 vers l’audio qui joue sur
    l’ordinateur PC2. Lorsqu’il ne reste que l’audio de l’ordinateur PC2 dans le mix, maintenez la
    touche Shift enfoncée et appuyez sur la touche Browse Focus/PC1/PC2 du module qui n'est
    pas en cours de lecture. Maintenant, PC2 utilise les modules A et B pour commander son
    ordinateur. Vous pouvez maintenant déconnecter l’ordinateur PC1 du NS6II.
Remarque : Si un module est déjà utilisé par un ordinateur, le module virtuel de l’ordinateur (dans
Serato DJ) deviendra noir et affichera IN USE.


           Étape 1                           Étape 2                           Étape 3




                                                                                                 33
Caractéristiques

Panneau supérieur
                                                17       34         35    33    36        37        16
     5         43     43    43            45                                                              43         43       43    45          5

                42     42       42         44            38     38               38        38            42         42       42    44

         3                                      4          46     46           46        46         4                                      48
                            24                                                                                       24
                                                     6     7         7         7         7      6
         25                                                                                                                                25
                                                     8     9    8    9    8    9     8   9      8

         22                                               10         10        10        10                                                22

                                                          11         11        11        11
     39                     1                                                                                            1                  39
                                                          47         47        47        47


                                          18             13 14 13 14 13 14 13 14                         18
              40                                                                                                                      40
                23                              2                                                   2                               23
                                                          12         12        12        12
                 28   29    30       31    32                                                            28    29    30      31    32
                                                     21                                       21
         27                                          20                                       20                                           27
                            26                                                                                       26
         41                                                               15                                                               41
                                                     19                                       19



Termes utilisés :
• Audio Pointer (curseur audio) : La position actuelle dans la piste d’où l’audio est lancée.
   Lorsque vous sélectionnez et lancez une piste, le curseur audio commence habituellement par le
   début et termine à la fin de la piste.
• Cue Point (point de repère) : Un emplacement marqué dans la piste qui est mémorisé par le
   logiciel. Vous pouvez programmer, retourner à ou supprimer des points de repère à l’aide des
   commandes de repérage.
• Temporary Cue Point (Point de repère temporaire) : Un emplacement marqué dans la piste
   qui est mémorisé tant que la piste est chargée dans le module. Vous pouvez programmer et
   retourner à un point de repère temporaire à l’aide de la touche Cue.

Commandes principales
1. Écran d’affichage : Cet écran affiche des informations sur la piste en cours. Veuillez consulter la
   section Écran d’affichage pour plus d'information.
2. Shift : Maintenez cette touche enfoncée afin d'accéder aux fonctions secondaires (en rouge) des
   autres commandes du NS6II.
3. Mode Touch : Appuyez sur cette touche pour changer le mode de Touch. Appuyer une fois sur
   cette touche permet d’accéder aux fonctions tactiles capacitives des boutons FX 1, FX 2 et FX 3
   du NS6II. Appuyer une seconde fois sur cette touche permet d’accéder aux fonctions tactiles
   capacitives des touches mentionnées ci-dessus et des touches d’égalisation (Channel High,
   Channel Mid et Channel Low). Ces fonctions sont momentanées, elles ne peuvent être
   « verrouillées ».
4. Deck : Ce sélecteur permet d'assigner le module virtuel qui est commandé par le module
   matériel. Le module A peut commander le module 1 ou 3 et le module B, le module 2 ou 4.
5. Browse Focus/PC1/PC2 : Appuyer sur cette touche permet de basculer la commande du
   bouton Scroll d’un ordinateur connecté à un autre.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur cette touche permet de sélectionner si le
   module commande l’ordinateur branché au port USB 1 ou au port USB 2. N’oubliez pas de
   régler le sélecteur d’entrée du canal sur PC si vous voulez qu’il joue l’audio de ce niveau dans
   le logiciel.
   Lorsque seulement un ordinateur est connecté, aucune fonction n’est attribuée à cette touche.
34
Commandes principales de la console de mixage
6. Sélecteur d’entrée : Ce sélecteur permet de commuter l’entrée sur la source que vous
   désirez utiliser pour ce canal : PC (une piste qui joue sur ce module virtuel) ou Line (un
   appareil branché à l’entrée Line/Phono du panneau arrière du NS6II).
   Remarque : Veuillez noter que les sélecteurs d’entrée Line/Phono sur le panneau arrière
   du NS6II doivent également être réglés correctement.
7. Gain Trim : Cette touche permet d'ajuster le niveau de pré-atténuation, pré-égalisation du
   canal correspondant dans le logiciel.
8. Vumètres DEL : Indique le niveau audio du canal correspondant.

9. Treble (du canal) : Permet d'ajuster le niveau des hautes fréquences du canal
   correspondant.
10. Mid (du canal) : Permet d'ajuster le niveau des fréquences moyennes de l'audio du canal
   correspondant.
11. Bass (du canal) : Permet d'ajuster le niveau des basses fréquences de l'audio du canal
   correspondant.
12. Fader du canal : Utilisez cet atténuateur pour ajuster le niveau de l'audio du canal
   correspondent dans le logiciel.
13. PFL : Cette touche permet d'acheminer le signal préatténuation du canal vers le canal de
   pré-écoute. La touche s'allume lorsque cette fonction est activée. En appuyant sur une
   des touches PFL à la fois, vous calez uniquement ce canal (et désactivez le monitoring
   PFL des autres canaux). Pour caler plusieurs canaux en même temps, appuyez
   simultanément sur les touches PFL pour ces canaux.
14. Crossfader Assign : Envoie l'audio sur le canal correspondant à chaque côté du
   crossfader (L/R) ou contourne le crossfader, l'envoyant au Program Mix (centre, Off).
15. Crossfader : Permet de mélanger l'audio entre les canaux assignés aux extrémités du
   Crossfader.
   Remarque : Ce potentiomètre est remplaçable par l'utilisateur s'il devait se détériorer.
   Retirez tout simplement le panneau avant et dévissez les vis qui le retiennent en position.
16. Master Volume : Ajuste les niveaux de la sortie du Program mix.

17. Booth Volume : Ajuste les niveaux de la sortie Booth.




                                                                                            35
Commandes de lecture
18. Plateau : Commande le curseur audio dans le logiciel.
     Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis déplacer le plateau permet de parcourir rapidement la
     liste.
19. Lecture / Pause : Cette touche permet d'interrompt ou de reprend la lecture.
     Maintenez enfoncée la touche Shift et appuyez sur cette touche afin d'ajouter un effet de «
     bégaiement » à partir du dernier point de repère.
20. Cue : Lorsque le module est pausé, vous pouvez programmer un point de repère temporaire en
    déplaçant le plateau afin de placer le curseur audio à l'endroit désiré et en appuyant sur la
    touche Cue.
     Pendant la lecture, vous pouvez appuyer sur la touche Cue afin de revenir à ce point de repère
     temporaire. (Si vous n'avez pas réglé de point de repère temporaire, la lecture reprendra au
     début de la piste.)
     Si le module est pausé, vous pouvez maintenir la touche Cue enfoncée afin de reprendre la
     lecture à partir du point de repère temporaire. En relâchant la touche Cue, le curseur retourne se
     placer sur le point de repère temporaire et pause la lecture. Pour reprendre la lecture sans
     revenir au point de repère temporaire, maintenez la touche Cue enfoncée, puis appuyez sur et
     maintenez la touche de lecture, puis relâchez les deux touches.
     Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin de retourner au début de
     la piste.
21. Sync : Appuyez sur cette touche afin de synchroniser automatiquement le tempo du module
    correspondant aux tempo et phase de l'autre module. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis
    appuyez sur cette touche pour désactiver la synchronisation.
22. Bleep / Keylock : Appuyez sur cette touche afin de inverser la lecture de la piste du module
    correspondant. Appuyez sur cette touche à nouveau, la lecture normale de la piste est relancée
    à partir de l'emplacement où il serait si la fonction Bleep n'avait jamais été activée (c.-à-d.,
    comme si la lecture n'avait jamais arrêté).
     Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et appuyez sur cette touche pour activer ou désactiver
     Keylock. La hauteur tonale de la chanson sera verrouillée à la position à laquelle elle était réglée
     lorsque Keylock a été activé. Cette fonction permet de modifier la vitesse de la chanson sans
     changer la hauteur tonale.
23. Scratch : Cette touche permet d'activer ou de désactiver le mode Scratch. Lorsque le mode
    scratch est activé, la partie au centre du plateau vous permet de faire du scratch comme une
    platine disque que vous tournez. Si le mode scratch est désactivé, la partie au centre du plateau
    permet de varier la vitesse de la lecture.
     Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur cette touche permet de basculer entre
     l'affichage du temps écoulé et du temps restant sur la molette du module correspondant.
24. Strip Search : La longueur de cette barre représente la durée de la piste. Placez votre doigt sur
    n’importe quel endroit sur cette barre afin de sauter sur ce point de la piste. (Si vous désirez
    parcourir une piste, nous vous recommandons d’utiliser votre ordinateur plutôt que de passer le
    doigt sur la barre.)
25. Slip / Quantize : Lors de l’utilisation de la grille de battements du logiciel (Beat Grid), maintenez
    la touche Slip enfoncée et déplacez le plateau afin de faire « glisser » la grille entière vers la
    gauche ou la droite. Cette fonction est utilisée lorsque la grille des battements est légèrement
    désalignée avec ceux de la piste. Pour de plus amples informations, veuillez consulter le guide
    de référence du Serato DJ.
     Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur la touche Slip du module A (côté gauche)
     permet d’activer ou de désactiver la fonction Quantize pour les niveaux 1 ou 3. Maintenir la
     touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur la touche Slip du module B (côté droit) permet d’activer
     ou de désactiver la fonction Quantize pour les niveaux 2 ou 4. Lorsqu’activée, cette fonction
     permet d’aligner automatiquement le réglage et le déclenchement des points de repère et des
     boucles au Beat Grid.



36
Commandes du mode Pad
26. Pads : Ces pads ont différentes fonctions selon le mode Pad et le module sélectionné. Ils
   sont sensibles à la dynamique (certains modes seulement), robustes et faciles à jouer.
   Dans cette section, lorsque l'on parle de pads spécifiques, cela fait référence aux numéros
   dans le diagramme.



                     Pad 1           Pad 2          Pad 3           Pad 4



                     Pad 5           Pad 6          Pad 7           Pad 8



27. Parameter </> : Utilisez ces touches pour les différentes fonctions pour chaque mode
   Pad. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis utilisez ces touches afin d'accéder aux
   paramètres secondaires.
   Si vous avez acheté le module d’expansion pour Serato Pitch N’ Time, maintenir la touche
   Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur ces touches permet de diminuer (<) ou d’augmenter (>) la
   haute tonale de la piste en cours.
28. Cues : Cette touche permet de basculer les pads entre deux modes : Mode Hot Cue et
   mode Hot Cue Auto-Loop. Lorsque la touche est éteinte, appuyer une fois permet de
   sélectionner le mode Hot Cue.
      •   Mode Hot Cue : Chaque pad peut assigner un point de repère rapide et retourner la
          piste à ce point de repère. Lorsqu'un pad est éteint, vous pouvez y assigner un
          point de repère rapide en appuyant sur le pad à l'endroit désiré sur la piste. Une fois
          assigné, le pad s'allume. Vous pouvez également maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée
          tout en appuyant sur un des pads afin de supprimer le point de repère rapide
          assigné à ce pad.
      •   Mode Hot Cue Auto-Loop : Chaque pad affecte un point de repère rapide ou
          retourne la piste au point de repère rapide, mais dans les deux cas, il crée
          également une boucle automatique à cet endroit. La durée des boucles
          automatiques est définie dans le logiciel, mais vous pouvez la diminuer ou
          l'augmenter à l'aide des touches Parameter < et >.



                    Hot Cue 1      Hot Cue 2       Hot Cue 3      Hot Cue 4




                    Hot Cue 5      Hot Cue 6       Hot Cue 7      Hot Cue 8




    Important : Si vous avez acheté le Serato Flip Expansion Pack, les touches Parameter <
    et > ont des fonctions supplémentaires en Hot Cue Mode et Hot Cue Auto-Loop qui vous
    permettent de créer et de contrôler les Flips. Veuillez consulter la section Commandes
    Flip afin d'en savoir plus.



                                                                                               37
29. Auto/Roll : Cette touche permet de basculer les pads entre deux modes : mode Auto-Loop et
    mode Loop Roll. Lorsque la touche est éteinte, appuyer une fois permet de sélectionner le mode
    Auto-Loop.
     Remarque : La configuration des pads correspond à la configuration de la division temporelle
     du bouclage automatique par défaut du logiciel. Si vous modifiez l'étendue de la plage de la
     division temporelle affichée dans le logiciel, la configuration des pads sera modifiée de la même
     manière.
       •   Mode de bouclage automatique (Auto-Loop) : Chaque pad active ou désactive une
           boucle automatique d'une durée différente. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et
           appuyez sur la touche Parameter < ou Parameter > afin d'avancer ou de reculer la
           boucle automatique.
       •   Mode de bouclage momentané (Loop Roll) : Chaque pad active une boucle
           momentanée. Appuyez sur la touche Parameter < ou Parameter > afin de modifier la
           division temporelle de la boucle momentanée.


                      1/8-beat         1/4-beat        1/2-beat         1-beat




                       2-beat           4-beat          8-beat         16-beat



30. Loop : Cette touche permet de basculer les pads entre les deux banques de boucle
    sauvegardées et les commandes de bouclage. Lorsque la touche est éteinte, appuyer une fois
    permet de sélectionner la première banque.
       •   Mode Saved Loop : Les pads 1 à 4 (la rangée du haut) retournent la piste à l'une de vos
           boucles sauvegardées. Vous pouvez créer et sauvegarder une boucle à l'aide des pads 5
           à 8 (la rangée du bas). Les configurations des pads pour les deux banques sont
           identiques.
             o   Pour créer une boucle, appuyez sur le pad 5 pour définir le point de départ de
                 boucle et puis appuyez sur le pad 6 pour définir le point de sortie de boucle et pour
                 activer la boucle.
             o   Pour sauvegarder une boucle, appuyez sur l'un des pads 1 à 4 (la rangée du haut)
                 qui n'est pas déjà assigné à une boucle. Vous pouvez le faire indépendamment de la
                 façon dont la boucle a été créée (mode Saved Loop, mode Auto-Loop, mode Loop
                 Roll, etc).
             o   Pour activer une boucle sauvegardée, appuyez sur l'un des pads 1 à 4 (la rangée
                 du haut) qui est déjà assigné à une boucle. Appuyez sur le pad 7 pour activer ou
                 désactiver la boucle. Appuyez sur le pad 8 pour retourner la piste à la dernière
                 boucle activée et réactivez-la (rebouclage ou « reloop »).
             o   Pour supprimer une boucle, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur
                 le pad correspondant (1 à 4).
             o   Pour réduire de moitié ou doubler la durée d'une boucle, appuyez sur l'une des
                 touches Parameter < et >.
             o   Pour faire avancer ou reculer une boucle, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et
                 appuyez sur une des touches Parameter < et >.


                      Boucle 1        Boucle 2         Boucle 3        Boucle 4



                     Départ de la    Sortie de la      Activer /
                                                      désactiver     Rebouclage
                       boucle          boucle
                                                        boucle


38
31. Sampler : Cette touche permet de basculer les pads entre deux modes : mode Sample
   Player et le mode Sample Velocity Trigger. Lorsque la touche est éteinte, appuyer une fois
   permet de sélectionner le mode Sample Player.
     •   Mode Sample Player : Les pads 1 à 6 déclenchent chacun un échantillon, que
         vous pouvez affecter dans le logiciel (le volume est également défini dans le logiciel).
         Les pads éteints ne sont assignés à aucun échantillon. Pour interrompre
         immédiatement un échantillon, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur
         le pad correspondant (pads 1 à 3 ou pads 4 à 6).
     •   Mode Sample Velocity Trigger : Les pads se comportent de manière identique au
         mode Sample Player, sauf qu'ils sont sensibles à la dynamique et le volume des
         échantillons déclenchés sera proportionnel à la force avec laquelle les pads sont
         frappés. Ce mode peut vous aider à obtenir une performance plus réaliste et plus
         personnelle.


                                                                   Mode de
                 Échantillon 1   Échantillon 2   Échantillon 3
                                                                   lecture


                                                                 Répétition de
                 Échantillon 4   Échantillon 5   Échantillon 6
                                                                   lecteur



32. Slicer : Cette touche permet de basculer les pads entre deux modes : mode Slicer et le
   mode Loop Slicer. Lorsque la touche est éteinte, appuyer une fois permet de sélectionner
   le mode Slicer.
    Important : Une grille des battements (Beat Grid) pour la piste doit avoir été configurée
    pour que le mode Slicer ou le mode Loop Slicer fonctionne.
     •   Mode de séparation des battements (Slicer) : Les huit pads représentent huit
         battements séquentiels — ou « tranches » (Slices) — dans la grille des battements.
         La tranche en cours de lecture est représentée par le pad allumé ; la lumière se
         déplace progressivement de pad en pad au fur et à mesure que les huit tranches
         sont lues. Appuyez sur un des pads pour jouer cette tranche — maintenez-le
         enfoncé afin qu'elle reboucle. Lorsque vous relâchez le pad, la piste reprendra la
         lecture normale à partir de l'emplacement où elle serait si vous n'aviez pas appuyé
         sur le pad (c.-à-d., comme si la lecture n'avait jamais arrêté).
         Appuyez sur la touche Parameter < ou Parameter > afin de diminuer ou
         d'augmenter la quantification de la séparation. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
         puis appuyez sur la touche Parameter < ou Parameter > afin de diminuer ou
         d'augmenter la taille des tranches.
     •   Mode de bouclage des tranches (Slicer Loop) : Les pads se comportent de
         manière identique au mode Slicer, sauf que la phrase de huit tranches sera bouclée
         au lieu au lieu de poursuivre la lecture de la piste.



                   Tranche 1      Tranche 2       Tranche 3       Tranche 4




                   Tranche 5      Tranche 6       Tranche 7       Tranche 8




                                                                                               39
Commandes Flip
Si vous avez acheté le Serato Flip Expansion Pack, vous pouvez créer et commander vos Flips
en utilisant ces commandes :
 •   En mode Hot Cue ou Hot Cue Auto-Loop (appuyez sur Cues afin d'accéder à l'un de
     ces modes) :
      o   Pour activer ou désactiver l'enregistrement, appuyez sur la touche Parameter <.
      o   Pour activer ou désactiver le bouclage Flip, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
          puis appuyez sur la touche Parameter <.
      o   Pour lancer immédiatement la lecture du dernier Flip lu (ou en cours de
          lecture), appuyez sur la touche Parameter >. Si vous le faites durant
          l'enregistrement d'un Flip, l'enregistrement s'arrêtera et la lecture de ce Flip sera
          lancée.
      o   Pour activer ou désactiver le Flip sélectionné, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
          puis appuyez sur la touche Parameter >. La lecture du Flip sera lancée lorsque la
          tête de lecture aura atteint la position du Flip.
 •   En mode Flip (maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyez sur Cues afin
     d'accéder à ce mode) :
      o   Pour ce mode : les pads éteints n'ont pas de Flip qui leur est assigné ; les pads
          allumés ont un Flip qui leur est assigné, mais qui n'est pas en cours de lecture ; les
          pads clignotants ont un Flip qui leur est assigné et sont en cours de lecture.
      o   Pour assigner un Flip à un pad, maintenez le pad 8 enfoncé puis appuyez sur le
          pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 ou 7.
      o   Pour lancer la lecture d'un flip assigné, appuyez sur le pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 ou 7 (s'il a
          un Flip qui lui est assigné).
      o   Pour interrompre immédiatement un Flip, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
          puis appuyez sur le pad correspondant.
      o   Pour « aligner » automatiquement la durée d'un Flip au Beat Grid (Loop Snap),
          maintenez le pad 4 enfoncé et appuyez sur un pad assigné à un Flip.
          Important : Un Beat Grid pour la piste doit avoir été configuré afin que la fonction
          Loop Snap fonctionne.



                      Flip 1         Flip 2          Flip 3       Loop Snap




                      Flip 4         Flip 5          Flip 6      Assigner Flip




40
Commandes de navigation
33. Bouton de navigation : Ce bouton permet de parcourir les listes de pistes, de Crates, etc.
   du logiciel. Vous pouvez également appuyer sur le bouton afin de passer au panneau
   suivant du logiciel.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis tourner ce bouton permet de parcourir
   rapidement une liste.
34. View / Trier par BPM : Cette touche permet de permuter entre les différents modes
   d’affichage du logiciel.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin de trier la
   bibliothèque par BPM.
35. Back / Trier par Song : Cette touche permet de déplacer le sélecteur vers l’arrière sur les
   différents panneaux du logiciel.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin de trier la
   bibliothèque par chanson.
36. Area / Trier par Key : Cette touche permet de parcourir les panneaux Files, Browse,
   Prepare et History du logiciel.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin de trier la
   bibliothèque par la tonalité.
37. L. Prep / Trier par Artist : Cette touche permet de charger une piste sélectionnée à la liste
   des pistes dans le panneau Prepare Area du logiciel.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin de trier la
   bibliothèque par artiste.
38. Load : Appuyer sur une de ces touches lorsqu'une piste est sélectionnée permet de
   l'affecter au canal correspondant.



Commande de vitesse de lecture
39. Potentiomètre : Ce potentiomètre permet de modifier la vitesse de lecture de la piste.
   Une DEL à côté du potentiomètre s'allume lorsqu'il est réglé sur 0 %.
40. DEL Takeover : Lorsque vous sélectionnez l'autre module à l'aide du sélecteur Deck, il
   se peut que la position du pitch fader du NS6II ne corresponde plus au réglage pour ce
   module dans le logiciel. Déplacez lentement le pitch fader dans la direction indiquée par
   la flèche de la DEL Takeover jusqu'à ce qu'elle s'éteigne. À cet emplacement, le pitch
   fader correspond au réglage tonal du logiciel et vous pouvez donc le contrôler à nouveau.
41. Pitch Bend ( + / – ) : Appuyer ou maintenir ces touches enfoncées permet de modifier
   temporairement la vitesse de lecture de la piste. Lorsqu'elles sont relâchées, la vitesse de
   lecture de la piste revient à la vitesse réglée par le pitch fader.
   Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée, puis appuyer sur ces touches permet d’augmenter
   (+) ou de diminuer (–) le registre du tempo.




                                                                                               41
Commandes des effets
42. FX 1, FX 2, FX 3 : Ces pads ont différentes fonctions selon le mode FX et le module sélectionné.
     •   Mode Single-FX : FX 1 permet d’activer ou de désactiver l’effet ; FX 2 permet d’activer ou
         de désactiver le premier paramètre de l’effet (s’il y a lieu) ; FX 3 permet d’activer ou de
         désactiver le deuxième paramètre de l’effet (s’il y a lieu). Maintenez la touche Shift
         enfoncée puis appuyez sur FX 1 afin de sélectionner l’effet désiré. Vous pouvez également
         maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée, puis tournez le bouton FX sous le nom d’effet afin de
         parcourir rapidement la liste.
     •   Mode Multi-FX : Les touches permettent d’activer ou désactiver le premier, deuxième et
         troisième effets dans l’enchaînement d’effets, respectivement. Maintenez la touche Shift
         enfoncée puis appuyez sur une des touches afin de sélectionner l’effet pour cet emplacement
         dans l’enchaînement d’effets. Vous pouvez également maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée,
         puis tournez le bouton FX sous le nom d’effet afin de parcourir rapidement la liste.
43. Boutons FX 1, FX 2 FX 3 : Ces boutons ont différentes fonctions selon le mode FX et le module
    sélectionné.
     •   Mode Single-FX : le bouton FX 1 contrôle l’équilibre « traité/non traité » de l’effet ; le
         bouton FX 2 contrôle le premier paramètre de l’effet ; le bouton FX 3 contrôle le deuxième
         paramètre de l’effet. Lorsque le mode Touch est activé, appuyez sur le bouton FX 1 afin
         d’activer son effet et relâchez-le pour le désactiver.
     •   Mode Multi-FX : Les bouton contrôle l’équilibre « traité/non traité » du premier, deuxième et
         troisième effets de l’enchaînement d’effets. Lorsque le mode Touch est activé, touchez un des
         boutons afin d’activer son effet et relâchez-le pour le désactiver.

44. Beat/Mode : Tapez cette touche à plusieurs reprises au tempo désiré pour régler la vitesse des
    oscillateurs basses fréquences (LFO) des effets. Maintenez cette touche enfoncée afin de
    réinitialiser la commande BPM au BPM du module. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis
    appuyez sur cette touche afin de basculer entre les modes Single-FX et Multi-FX.

45. Bouton Beat : Tourner ce bouton pour sélectionner la division temporelle pour les effets
    sélectionnés.

46. FX Assign : Ces touches permettent de choisir l’effet à ajouter, A et/ou B, au canal
    correspondant. (Chaque effet peut être ajouté à un seul canal, à tous les quatre canaux)

47. Channel Filter : Tourner ce bouton pour régler le filtre sur le canal correspondant. Le type de
    filtre ajusté dépend de la touche du mode Filter.

48. Mode Filter : Appuyez sur cette touche pour changer le mode de filter (off, mode Filter-Roll ou
    mode Filter-FX), ce qui affecte les boutons Channel Filter.
     •   Off : Lorsque cette touche est désactivée, le bouton Channel Filter ajoute et contrôle un
         filtre passe-bas sur le canal correspondant lorsque tourné dans le sens horaire et ajoute et
         contrôle un filtre passe-haut lorsque tourné dans le sens antihoraire.
     •   Mode Filter-Roll : Appuyez sur cette touche une fois pour activer le mode Filter-Roll (la
         touche devient rouge foncé). Le bouton Channel Filter ajoute et contrôle un filtre passe-
         bas sur le canal correspondant lorsque tourné dans le sens antihoraire et ajoute et contrôle
         un filtre passe-haut lorsque tourné dans le sens horaire. En outre, elle appliquera un Loop
         Roll au filtre et diminuera la durée progressivement plus le bouton s’éloigne de la position
         centrale. Appuyez sur cette touche une fois pour désactiver le Mode Filter-Roll.
     •   Mode Filter-FX : Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur cette touche afin
         d’activer le mode Filter-FX (la touche en deviendra rouge et clignotera). Le bouton Channel
         Filter ajoute et contrôle un filtre passe-bas sur le canal correspondant lorsque tourné dans le
         sens antihoraire et ajoute et contrôle un filtre passe-haut lorsque tourné dans le sens horaire.
         De plus, il ajustera le premier paramètre des effets ajoutés à ce canal plus le bouton s’éloigne
         de la position centrale. Appuyez sur cette touche une fois pour désactiver le Mode Filter-FX.




42
Écran d’affichage

1. Indicateur de module : Indique le module en
   cours d’utilisation.
                                                                              1
2. Position du plateau : Affiche la position de la piste
   en cours.
                                                                   2                          3
3. Indicateurs de durée : Fournit une référence
   visuelle de la durée restante de la piste en cours.
   Lorsque la piste touche à sa fin, les barres se             5
   mettent à clignoter afin de vous avertir.
4. Affichage du temps écoulé / temps restant :
                                                                                                  9
   Affiche le temps écoulé ou le temps restant de la
   piste en cours. Maintenez la touche Shift
                                                               4
   enfoncée, puis appuyez sur la touche Scratch
   pour modifier le mode d’affichage.
5. BPM : Affiche le BPM en cours pour la piste
                                                                   6                           8
   sélectionnée.                                                               7
6. Réglage de la hauteur tonale : Indique quelle
   direction déplacer le curseur de hauteur tonale
   afin de correspondre au BPM de la piste en cours
   de l’autre module.
7. Pitch : Affiche la haute tonale de la piste sélectionnée.
8. Plage de la hauteur tonale : Indiquent la plage de la hauteur tonale en cours.
9. Verrouillage tonal : Cette icône s'allume lorsque le verrouillage tonal est activé pour le module
   en cours. Veuillez consulter le guide d’utilisation de Serato DJ Intro pour plus d'information sur le
   verrouillage tonal.



Panneau avant




        8   7   6    8   7   6    5                                      4    3    2      1


1. Casque audio (6,35 mm ou 3,5 mm / 1/4 po ou 1/8 po) : Permet de brancher un casque
   d'écoute 6,35 mm (1/4 po) ou 3,5 mm (1/8 po) pour le pré écoute.
2. Volume casque audio : Ce bouton ajuste les niveaux de la sortie du casque d'écoute.
3. Split Cue : En position On ceci permet de diviser le signal audio du casque d'écoute de façon à
   ce que tous les canaux acheminés au casque soient mixés en mono puis envoyé à l'oreillette
   gauche et que le Program mix soit mixé en mono puis envoyé au canal droit. Lorsqu'il est à la
   position Off, l'audio de Cue et Program seront mixé ensemble.
4. Cue Mix : Permet de mixer le canal de pré-écoute et du Program mix dans le casque d'écoute.
   Lorsqu'il est déplacé à l'extrémité gauche, seuls les canaux acheminés au casque d'écoute sont
   entendus. Lorsqu'il est déplacé à l'extrémité droite, seul le mixe du programme est entendu.
5. Crossfader Contour : Ce commutateur permet de régler l'intensité du fondu du crossfader.
   Réglez le commutateur vers la gauche pour un fondu progressif (mixage) ou tournez vers la
   droite pour une coupure nette (scratch).
6. Mic Gain : Cette touche permet d'ajuster les niveaux de l'entrée Mic.
7. Mic High : Permet d’ajuster le niveau des hautes fréquences du canal du microphone.
8.   Mic Low : Permet d’ajuster le niveau des basses fréquences de l’audio du canal du microphone.



                                                                                                     43
Panneau arrière


                                      7
     1        3
          2       4   6   5   5   6                              8     9    10       11


1. L'interrupteur d'alimentation : Met l'appareil sous et hors tension. Branchez le NS6II
   après avoir branché tous les appareils et avant de mettre les amplificateurs sous tension.
   Mettez les amplificateurs hors tension avant de mettre le NS6II hors tension.
2. Entrée courant : Utilisez l'adaptateur d'alimentation inclus (12 V CC, 2 A, centre positif)
   pour brancher le NS6II dans une prise d'alimentation murale. Lorsque le NS6II est hors
   tension, branchez le câble d'alimentation dans le NS6II, puis dans la prise de courant.
3. Clip de retenue : Utilisez ce clip pour fixer les câbles afin de ne pas le débrancher
   accidentellement.
4. Port USB 1/2 : Utilisez le câble USB standard inclus pour relier chaque port au port USB
   d’un ordinateur. Ces ports permettent de commander l’audio de 2 ordinateurs en même
   temps, ce qui permet de faire des transitions d’un DJ à l’autre parfaites.
     Pour définir le canal qui commande un ordinateur, réglez le sélecteur d’entrée sur PC et
     réglez le sélecteur USB sur le port souhaité (USB1 ou USB2).
5. Entrées line/phono (RCA) : Branchez ces entrées aux sources audio. Ces entrées
   peuvent accepter les signaux phono et à niveau ligne.
6. Sélécteur line/phono : Mettre ce sélecteur à la position appropriée, selon l’appareil
   branché aux entrées Line/Phono. Si vous utilisez des tables tournantes phono à niveau
   ligne, réglez ce sélecteur à Phono afin d’ajouter plus d’amplification pour les signaux
   phono à niveau ligne. Pour brancher un appareil à niveau de ligne, tel qu’un lecteur CD ou
   un échantillonneur, réglez le sélecteur Line/Phono à la position Line.
7. Borne de mise à la terre : Si vous utilisez des tables tournantes avec fils de mise à la
   terre, assurez-vous de brancher le fils à cette borne. S’il y a un ronflement ou du bruit, il se
   pourrait que vos tables tournantes ne soient pas mises à la terre.
     Remarque : Certaines tables tournantes fabriquées récemment sont dotées d'un fil de
     mise à la terre intégré à la connexion RCA, et donc, n'ont pas besoin d’être reliées à la
     borne de mise à la terre.
8. Entrées microphone (6,35 mm) : Ces entrées 6,35 mm permettent de brancher des
   microphones. Les commandes microphone sont situées sur le panneau avant. Le signal
   audio de ces entrées est acheminé directement aux Program Mix et Cue Mix.
9. Sortie booth (RCA) : Utilisez des câbles RCA standards afin de brancher cette sortie à
   système de pré-écoute. Le niveau du signal de cette sortie est commandé par le bouton
   Booth du panneau supérieur.
10. Sortie master (RCA) : Utilisez des câbles RCA standards afin de brancher cette sortie à
    un haut-parleur ou à un système de sonorisation. Le niveau du signal de cette sortie est
    commandé par le bouton Master du panneau supérieur.
11. Sortie master (symétrique, XLR) : Ce connecteur XLR à basse impédance sert à
    connecter un système audio externe tel qu'un système de sonorisation, des moniteurs
    amplifiés. Le niveau de sortie principale est commandé par le bouton Master sur le
    panneau supérieur.




44
Guida per l’uso (Italiano)
Introduzione

Contenuti della confezione

NS6II
Cavo USB
Adattatore di alimentazione
Scheda per il download del software
Guida rapida
Istruzioni di sicurezza e garanzia


Assistenza

Per le ultime informazioni in merito a questo prodotto (documentazione, specifiche tecniche,
requisiti di sistema, informazioni sulla compatibilità, ecc.) e per effettuarne la registrazione,
recarsi alla pagina numark.com.
Per ulteriore assistenza, recarsi alla pagina numark.com/support.


Installazione
Prima di iniziare:
•   Leggere attentamente il libretto delle Istruzioni di sicurezza e garanzia prima di utilizzare
    l'NS6II.
•   Assicurarsi che gli elementi elencati nella parte Contenuti della confezione siano inclusi.
•   Rimuovere la pellicola blu dai piatti prima di utilizzare l'NS6II.


1. Installare i driver e il software

Utenti Windows: installare i driver prima di installare il software.

Driver (utenti Windows): Scaricare le ultime versioni dei driver dalla pagina
numark.com/NS6II. (Durante l'installazione vi verrà richiesto di collegare l'NS6II al computer).

Software: Scaricare l'ultima versione di Serato DJ dalla pagina serato.com.




                                                                                               45
2. Collegare il tutto e iniziare a fare il DJ!

Seguire questa sequenza di passaggi ogni volta che si utilizza l'NS6II:
1. Assicurarsi che tutti i dispositivi siano spenti e che tutti i fader e le manopole di guadagno
   gain siano a "zero".
2. Collegare le sorgenti d'ingresso (microfoni, lettori CD ecc) all'NS6II.
3. Collegare i dispositivi di uscita (amplificatori, sub-mixer, registratori, ecc.) all'NS6II.
4. Collegare tutti i dispositivi all'alimentazione elettrica e accenderli nell'ordine corretto.
       • Al momento di avviare una sessione accendere, nell'ordine, (1) sorgenti d'ingresso, (2)
         NS6II, (3) dispositivi di uscita.
       • Al momento di concludere una sessione, invertire questa operazione spegnendo (1)
         dispositivi di uscita, (2) NS6II, (3) sorgenti d'ingresso.
5. Collegare l'NS6II al computer servendosi del cavo USB (incluso) e alle cuffie.
6. Aprire il software Serato DJ e partire! Per maggiori informazioni su come utilizzare il
   Serato DJ con l'NS6II, recarsi alla pagina serato.com/dj/support e selezionare
   Numark NS6II.

Importante:
•      Toccare i piatti per calibrare il circuito sensibile al tocco prima di utilizzare NS6II.
•      Al momento di ricollegare il NS6II al computer, il NS6II ricorderà le posizioni precedenti
       del software (ad es. Pitch, parametri degli effetti, ecc.). Questo va ricordato prima di
       riprodurre una traccia.


Schema dei collegamenti


                    Computer(s)                                         Amplificatore sala

                                                 Microfono




                                            Pannello posteriore                             Cuffie
                                                                                      (pannello anteriore)

    Alimentazione




                          Lettore CD        Giradischi                  Amplificatore booth


Elementi non elencati sotto Introduzione > Contenuti della confezione sono venduti separatamente.

46
Passaggio tra DJ
L’NS6II consente a due computer dotati di Serato DJ di collegarsi simultaneamente all’apparecchio.
Ciò consente a due DJ di suonare contemporaneamente con facili passaggi da un DJ set all’altro.
Con un computer già collegato all’NS6II e in via di riproduzione (PC1), procedere come segue:
1. Collegare un secondo computer (PC2) a una porta USB inutilizzata sul pannello posteriore
   dell’NS6II. Una volta collegato il computer, il software mostrerà tutti i deck offline. Il primo
   computer continuerà a controllare entrambi i lati dell’NS6II.
2. Prima di assegnare al PC2 il controllo di un lato dell’NS6II, assicurarsi che non ci sia audio in
   corso di riproduzione dal PC2 su quel deck, in quanto andrà offline. Quindi, tenere premuto Shift
   e premere il tasto Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 sul deck non in corso di riproduzione.
    Il PC2 ora controllerà i due canali presenti su quel lato del controller e avrà automaticamente il
    focus sui comandi di navigazione. Servirsi della manopola di navigazione per scorrere lungo la
    libreria, quindi aggiungere la traccia desiderata al deck premendo il tasto Load.
3. Riprodurre una traccia sul deck del PC2 e mixarla quando si è pronti. Ora si avrà l’audio da
   entrambi i computer nel mix. Ad esempio, mentre PC1 utilizza il Deck A (e i comandi del mixer
   per i Canali 1 & 3) per controllare il relativo computer, PC2 può anche utilizzare il Deck B (e i
   comandi del mixer per i Canali 2 & 4) per controllare il relativo computer.
    Quando ciascun computer controlla ciascun deck, premere il tasto Browse Focus / PC1/PC2
    sul deck che non è in corso di riproduzione per commutare il controllo della manopola di
    navigazione.
4. Sfumare l’audio riprodotto dal primo computer PC1 nell’audio riprodotto dal secondo computer
   PC2. Quando solo l’audio proveniente dal PC2 è lasciato nel mix, tenere premuto Shift e
   premere il tasto Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 sul deck che non è in corso di riproduzione. Ora il
   PC2 utilizza entrambi i Deck, A e B, per controllare il computer. È ora possibile scollegare il PC1
   dall’NS6II.
Nota bene: se un deck è già in uso su un computer, il deck virtuale di quel computer (in Serato DJ)
diventerà nero e mostrerà IN USE.


           Passo 1                            Passo 2                            Passo 3




                                                                                                   47
Caratteristiche

Pannello superiore

                                                17       34         35    33    36        37        16
     5         43     43    43            45                                                              43         43       43    45          5

                42     42       42         44            38     38               38        38            42         42       42    44

         3                                      4          46     46           46        46         4                                      48
                            24                                                                                       24
                                                     6     7         7         7         7      6
         25                                                                                                                                25
                                                     8     9    8    9    8    9     8   9      8

         22                                               10         10        10        10                                                22

                                                          11         11        11        11
     39                     1                                                                                            1                  39
                                                          47         47        47        47


                                          18             13 14 13 14 13 14 13 14                         18
              40                                                                                                                      40
                23                              2                                                   2                               23
                                                          12         12        12        12
                 28   29    30       31    32                                                            28    29    30      31    32
                                                     21                                       21
         27                                          20                                       20                                           27
                            26                                                                                       26
         41                                                               15                                                               41
                                                     19                                       19



Termini utili:
•        Audio Pointer: la posizione corrente in una traccia, dalla quale verrà riprodotto l’audio. Quando
         viene selezionata una traccia e se ne avvia la riproduzione, l’Audio Pointer solitamente inizierà
         dall’inizio e terminerà alla fine della traccia.
•        Cue Point: una posizione contrassegnata in una traccia, che sarà memorizzata in via
         permanente dal software. Si può impostare, tornare a o cancellare Cue Point con i Comandi
         Cue.
•        Temporary Cue Point: una posizione contrassegnata in una traccia, che rimarrà unicamente per
         il tempo in cui la traccia stessa è caricata sul deck. Si può impostare il punto cue temporaneo e
         tornarvi servendosi del tasto Cue.

Comandi generali
1. Display: servirsi di questa schermata per visualizzare informazioni sulla traccia corrente. Per
         maggiori informazioni, si veda Display.
2. Shift: tenere premuto questo tasto per accedere a funzioni secondarie (indicate in rosso) degli
         altri comandi dell'NS6II.
3. Modalità Touch: premere questo tasto per cambiare la modalità Touch. Premere una volta per
         accedere alle funzioni capacitive tattili della manopola FX 1, FX 2 e FX 3 dell’NS6II. Premerlo
         una seconda volta per accedere alle funzioni capacitive tattili di queste manopole e delle
         manopole EQ (Channel High, Channel Mid e Channel Low). Queste funzioni sono
         momentanee, non si possono "bloccare".
4. Deck: Seleziona quale strato del software è controllato da quel deck. Il Deck A può controllare
         gli strati 1 o 3; il deck B può controllare gli strati 2 o 4.
5. Browse Focus / PC1/PC2: premere questo tasto per spostare il focus della manopola Scroll da
         un computer collegato all’altro.
         Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per scegliere se il deck controllerà il computer
         collegato alla Porta USB 1 o alla Porta USB 2. Ricordatevi di impostare il selettore di ingressi
         del canale su PC se si desidera riprodurre l’audio da quello strato nel software
         Se è collegato un solo computer, questo tasto non avrà alcuna funzione.

48
Comandi mixer
6. Selettore di ingressi: Impostare questo interruttore sulla fonte audio desiderata per
   questo canale: PC (una traccia che viene riprodotta su quello strato nel software), o Line
   (un dispositivo collegato all'ingresso Line/Phono a livello sul pannello posteriore
   dell'NS6II).
    Nota bene: gli interruttori Line/Phono sul pannello posteriore dell'NS6II devono a loro volta
    essere configurati adeguatamente.
7. Gain Trim: Regola il livello audio pre-fader, pre-EQ del canale corrispondente nel
   software.
8. Misuratori a LED Meters: Monitorano il livello audio del canale corrispondente.
9. Channel high (acuti di canale): Regola le frequenze alte (treble) del canale
   corrispondente.
10. Channel mid (medi di canale): Regola le frequenze medie del canale corrispondente.
11. Channel low (bassi di canale): Regola le frequenze basse (bass) del canale
    corrispondente.
12. Fader canale: Regola il livello audio inviato al mix di programma (Program) nel software.
13. PFL: premere questo tasto per inviare il segnale pre-fader di questo canale al canale Cue
    per il monitoraggio. Una volta attivato, il tasto sarà acceso. Premendo un tasto PFL alla
    volta, si effettuerà il cueing di quel solo canale (e si disattiverà il monitoraggio PFL degli
    altri canali). Per effettuare il cueing di più canali simultaneamente, premere i tasti PFL di tali
    canali contemporaneamente.
14. Crossfader Assign: Convoglia l'audio riprodotto sul canale corrispondente a ciascun lato
    del crossfader (A o B), oppure bypassa il crossfader e invia l'audio direttamente al
    Program Mix (centro, Off).
15. Crossfader: Miscela l'audio tra i canali assegnati ai lati sinistro e destro del crossfader.
    Nota bene: il crossfader è sostituibile dall'utente in caso di usura. Rimuovere il pannello
    anteriore e le viti che lo tengono in posizione.
16. Master Volume: Regola il volume di uscita del mix di Programma.
17. Booth Volume: Regola il volume di uscita del mix di Booth Output (uscita booth).




                                                                                                   49
Comandi riproduzione
18. Piatto: controlla il puntatore audio nel software.
     Tenere premuto Shift e muovere il piatto per spostarsi rapidamente lungo la traccia.
19. Play / Pause: questo tasto interrompe momentaneamente o fa riprendere la riproduzione.
     Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riprodurre la traccia con un effetto
     "stutter" dall'ultimo punto cue impostato.
20. Cue: quando il deck è in pausa, si può impostare un punto cue temporaneo muovendo il
    piatto in modo da collocare il puntatore audio al punto desiderato e quindi premendo il
    tasto Cue.
     Durante la riproduzione, si può premere il tasto Cue per far tornare la traccia al suo punto
     cue temporaneo (se non è stato impostato alcun punto cue temporaneo, tornerà all'inizio
     della traccia).
     Se il deck è in pausa, si può premere il tasto Cue per riprodurre la traccia dal punto cue
     temporaneo. Lasciando la pressione, la traccia tornerà al punto cue temporaneo e la
     riproduzione verrà interrotta. Per continuare la riproduzione senza tornare al punto cue
     temporaneo, tenere premuto il tasto Cue, quindi premere e tenere premuto il tasto Play e
     rilasciare entrambi i tasti.
     Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per tornare all'inizio della traccia.
21. Sync: premere questo tasto per abbinare automaticamente il tempo del deck
    corrispondente con il tempo e la fase del deck opposto. Tenere premuto Shift e premere
    questo tasto per disattivare la funzione Sync.
22. Bleep / Keylock: premere questo tasto per invertire la riproduzione audio della traccia sul
    deck corrispondente. Premendo nuovamente il tasto verrà ripresa la normale riproduzione
    dal punto in cui si sarebbe trovata se la funzione Bleep non fosse mai stata attivata (ossia,
    come se la traccia avesse continuato a suonare).
     Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare Keylock. La tonalità
     della canzone verrà bloccata in qualsiasi posizione si trova il fader al momento
     dell'attivazione del Keylock. Questa funzione permette di modificare la velocità della
     canzone senza cambiare la nota.
23. Scratch: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare la modalità Scratch. In questa
    modalità, toccando la parte centrale del piatto, si farà lo scratch come con un giradischi
    quando la si fa ruotare. Se la modalità scratch è spenta, la parte centrale del piatto
    effettuerà il bend del pitch quando viene fatta girare.
     Tenere premuto Shift, quindi premere questo tasto per commutare tra tempo trascorso e
     tempo rimanente sul display della rotella jog sul deck corrispondente.
24. Strip Search: La lunghezza di questa fascia rappresenta la lunghezza dell’intera traccia.
    Puntare il dito in un punto lungo questo sensore per saltare a quel punto della traccia. (Se
    si desidera scorrere lungo una traccia, si raccomanda di utilizzare il computer anziché far
    scorrere il dito lungo la fascia.)
25. Slip / Quantize: Quando si utilizza la griglia del beat del software, tenere premuto Slip e
    muovere il piatto per far "scorrere" (vale a dire spostare o far scorrere) l'intera griglia verso
    sinistra o verso destra. Per maggiori informazioni, fare riferimento al manuale del Serato
    DJ.
     Tenere premuto Shift e premere il tasto Slip sul Deck A (lato sinistro) per attivare o
     disattivare Quantize per il Layer 1 o 3. Tenere premuto Shift e premere il tasto Slip sul
     Deck B (lato destro) per attivare o disattivare Quantize per il Layer 2 o 4. Quando questa
     funzione è abilitata, l'impostazione e l'attivazione di cue e loop farà saltare alla griglia del
     beat.

50
Comandi modalità pad
26. Pad: questi pad hanno funzioni diverse su ciascun deck a seconda della modalità Pad
    corrente. Sono sensibili alla velocità (solo in determinate modalità), resistenti e facili da
    suonare. In questa sezione, quando si fa riferimento a pad specifici, si fa riferimento ai
    numeri così come sono illustrati qui.



                      Pad 1          Pad 2           Pad 3          Pad 4



                      Pad 5          Pad 6           Pad 7          Pad 8




27. Parametro < / >: servirsi di questi tasti per varie funzioni in ciascuna modalità pad. Tenere
    premuto Shift e utilizzare questi tasti per accedere a parametri secondari.
   Se è stata acquistata l’espansione Serato Pitch N’ Time, tenendo premuto Shift e
   premendo questi tasti verrà regolata la tonalità della traccia corrente verso il basso (<) o
   verso l’alto (>).
28. Cue: questo tasto di modalità pad fa commutare i pad tra due modalità: Modalità Hot Cue
    e modalità Hot Cue Auto-Loop. Quando il tasto è spento, la prima pressione selezionerà
    sempre la modalità Hot Cue.
      •   Modalità Hot Cue: ciascun pad assegna un punto Hot Cue o fa tornare la traccia a
          quel punto Hot Cue. Quando un pad è spento, è possibile assegnarvi un punto hot
          cue premendolo nel punto desiderato della traccia. Una volta assegnato, il pad si
          accenderà. Tenere premuto Shift e premere un pad per cancellare il punto Hot Cue
          ad esso assegnato.
      •   Modalità Hot Cue Auto-loop: ciascun pad assegna un punto Hot Cue o fa tornare
          la traccia a quel punto Hot Cue, ma in entrambi i casi, crea anche un Auto-Loop in
          quel punto. La lunghezza dell'Auto-Loop è impostata nel software, ma è possibile
          ridurla o aumentarla servendosi del tasto Parametro < o Parametro >.



                    Hot Cue 1      Hot Cue 2       Hot Cue 3       Hot Cue 4




                    Hot Cue 5      Hot Cue 6       Hot Cue 7       Hot Cue 8




   Importante: se avete acquistato il Serato Flip Expansion Pack, i tasti Parametro < e
   Parametro > hanno funzioni aggiuntive in modalità Hot Cue Mode Hot Cue Auto-Loop che
   consentono di creare e controllare i Flip. Si veda Comandi Flip per saperne di più.




                                                                                               51
29. Auto / Roll: questo tasto di modalità pad fa commutare i pad tra due modalità: modalità
    Auto-Loop e modalità Loop Roll. Quando il tasto è spento, la prima pressione selezionerà
    sempre la modalità Auto-Loop.
     Nota bene: i layout dei pad qui corrispondono al layout di suddivisione del tempo Auto-
     Loop predefinito del software. Se si cambia il range di suddivisioni del tempo nel software,
     il layout dei pad cambierà per abbinarvisi.
       •   Modalità Auto-Loop: ciascun pad attiva o rilascia un Auto-Loop di una lunghezza
           diversa. Tenere premuto Shift e premere il tasto Parametro < o Parametro > per
           far spostare l'Auto-Loop indietro o in avanti.
       •   Modalità Loop Roll: ciascun pad attiva un Loop Roll momentaneo. Premere il tasto
           Parametro < o Parametro > per cambiare la suddivisione del tempo del Loop Roll.



                     1/8 di beat     1/4 di beat     1/2 di beat       1 beat




                       2 beat          4 beat          8 beat          16 beat



30. Loop: questo tasto di modalità pad fa commutare i pad tra due banchi di loop salvati e i
    comandi di Loop. Quando il tasto è spento, la prima pressione selezionerà sempre il primo
    banco.
       •   Modalità loop salvata: I pad 1-4 (riga superiore) fanno tornare la traccia ad uno dei
           loop salvati. Si crea e si salva un loop servendosi dei pad 5-8 (riga inferiore). I layout
           dei pad dei due banchi sono identici.
            o   Per creare un loop, premere il Pad 5 per impostare il punto di Loop In e quindi
                premere il Pad 6 per impostare il punto di Loop Out e attivare il loop.
            o   Per salvare un loop, quando un loop è attivo, premere uno dei pad 1-4 (riga
                superiore) cui non sia stato assegnato un loop. Questo può essere fatto
                indipendentemente dal modo in cui il loop è stato creato (modalità Saved Loop,
                Auto-Loop, Loop Roll, ecc.).
            o   Per attivare un loop salvato, premere uno dei pad 1-4 (riga superiore) cui sia
                stato salvato un loop. Premere il Pad 7 per attivare o disattivare il loop.
                Premere il Pad 8 per far tornare la traccia all'ultimo loop attivato e attivarlo
                nuovamente ("reloop").
            o   Per cancellare un loop salvato, tenere premuto Shift e quindi premere il pad
                corrispondente (dei pad 1-4).
            o   Per dimezzare o raddoppiare la lunghezza di un loop, premere il tasto
                Parametro < o Parametro >.
            o   Per far andare avanti o indietro un loop, tenere premuto Shift e poi premere
                il tasto Parametro < o Parametro >.



                      Loop 1           Loop 2          Loop 3          Loop 4



                                                      Attivare /
                      Loop In        Loop Out        disattivare       Reloop
                                                        loop

52
31. Campionatore: questo tasto di modalità pad fa commutare i pad tra due modalità:
    modalità Sample Player e modalità Sample Velocity Trigger. Quando il tasto è spento, la
    prima pressione selezionerà sempre la modalità Sample Player.
      •   Modalità Sample player: i pad 1-6 attivano un campione ciascuno, che può essere
          assegnato nel software (anche il livello del volume è configurato nel software). Ai
          pad spenti non sono assegnati campioni. Per interrompere la riproduzione di un
          campione, tenere premuto Shift e quindi premere il pad corrispondente (dei Pad 1-3
          o Pad 4-6).
      •   Modalità Sample Velocity Trigger: i pad si comportano come i pad in modalità
          Sample Player, tranne per il fatto che sono sensibili alla velocità, quindi i campioni
          attivati verranno riprodotti a un volume proporzionale alla forza con la quale vengono
          premuti i pad. Questa modalità può dare all'esibizione un tocco più "umano".



                                                                  Modalità di
                   Campione 1     Campione 2      Campione 3
                                                                 riproduzione


                                                                  Ripetizione
                   Campione 4     Campione 5      Campione 6
                                                                  del lettore



32. Slicer: questo tasto di modalità pad fa commutare i pad tra due modalità: modalità Slicer
    e modalità Slicer Loop. Quando il tasto è spento, la prima pressione selezionerà sempre la
    modalità Slicer.
   Importante: la traccia deve avere una Beat Grid affinché la modalità Slicer o la modalità
   Slicer Loop funzioni.
      •   Modalità Slicer: gli otto pad rappresentano otto beat sequenziali "slice" nella griglia
          del beat. Lo slice che viene riprodotto è rappresentato dal pad acceso; la luce si
          "sposta tra i pad" man mano che avanza attraverso ciascuna frase di otto Slice.
          Premere un pad per riprodurre quello Slice. Tenerlo premuto se si desidera
          continuare a riprodurlo in loop. Quando si rilascia il pad verrà ripresa la normale
          riproduzione della traccia dal punto in cui si sarebbe trovata se non fosse mai stata
          premuta (ossia, come se la traccia avesse continuato a suonare).
          Premere il tasto Parametro < o Parametro > per aumentare o diminuire la
          quantizzazione dello Slice. Tenere premuto Shift e premere il tasto Parametro < o
          Parametro > per aumentare o diminuire la dimensione dello Slice Domain.
      •   Modalità Slicer loop: i pad si comportano come i pad nella modalità Slicer, tranne
          per il fatto che la frase da otto Slice effettuerà un loop anziché avanzare in maniera
          continua lungo la traccia.



                     Slice 1         Slice 2        Slice 3         Slice 4




                     Slice 5         Slice 6        Slice 7         Slice 8




                                                                                               53
Comandi Flip
Se avete acquistato il Serato Flip Expansion Pack, è possibile creare e controllare i propri Flip
servenedosi dei seguenti comandi:
 •   In modalità Hot Cue o Hot Cue Auto-Loop (premere Cues per entrare in una modalità o
     nell'altra):
      o   Per armare o annullare la registrazione del Flip, premere il tasto Parametro <.
      o   Per attivare o disattivare il loop dei Flip, tenere premuto Shift e quindi premere il
          tasto Parametro <.
      o   Per iniziare immediatamente a riprodurre l'ultimo Flip suonato (o quello la cui
          riproduzione è attualmente in corso), premere il tasto Parametro >. Facendo
          questo durante la registrazione di un Flip, la registrazione stessa si arresta e viene
          avviata la riproduzione di quel Flip.
      o   Per attivare o disattivare il Flip corrente, tenere premuto Shift e quindi premere il
          tasto Parametro >. Se la testina di riproduzione non è ancora nella regione del Flip,
          il Flip inizierà ad essere riprodotto una volta che la testina stessa lo raggiunge.
 •   In modalità Flip (tenere premuto Shift e premere Cues per entrare in questa modalità):
      o   In questa modalità: ai pad spenti non è assegnato alcun Flip; ai pad illuminati in
          maniera fissa è stato assegnato un Flip, ma non sono in via di riproduzione; ai pad
          lampeggianti è stato assegnato un Flip e vengono riprodotti.
      o   Per assegnare un Flip a un pad, tenere premuto il Pad 8 e quindi premere il Pad 1,
          2, 3, 5, 6 o 7.
      o   Per riprodurre un Flip assegnato, premere Pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 o 7 (se gli è stato
          assegnato un Flip).
      o   Per interrompere immediatamente la riproduzione di un Flip, tenere premuto
          Shift, quindi premere il pad corrispondente.
      o   Per far "scattare" automaticamente la lunghezza di un Flip in modo che si
          allinei con la griglia del beat (Loop Snap) tenere premuto il Pad 4 e premere un
          pad cui sia stato assegnato un Flip.
          Importante: la traccia deve avere una griglia del beat affinché la funzione Loop
          Snap funzioni.



                      Flip 1          Flip 2         Flip 3       Loop Snap



                                                                  Assegnare
                      Flip 4          Flip 5         Flip 6
                                                                     Flip




54
Comandi di navigazion
33. Scroll Knob: Servirsi di questa manopola per scorrere lungo l’elenco delle tracce, dei
    crate, ecc. all’interno del software. È anche possibile premerla per muoversi tra i pannelli
    mostrati nel software.
   Tenere premuto Shift e girare questa manopola per scorrere rapidamente.
34. View / Sort by BPM: premere questo tasto per commutare tra le modalità di display
    software disponibili.
   Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riordinare la libreria per BPM.
35. Back / Sort by Song: premere questo tasto per far tornare indietro il cursore tra i pannelli
    del software.
   Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riordinare la libreria per canzone.
36. Area / Sort by Key: premere questo tasto per commutare tra i pannelli file (Files),
    navigazione (Browse), prepara (Prepare) e storia (History).
   Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riordinare la libreria per tonalità.
37. L. Prep / Sort by Artist: premere questo tasto per aggiungere una traccia selezionata
    all’elenco delle tracce nell'area “Prepare” del software.
   Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per riordinare la libreria per artista.
38. Load: premere uno di questi tasti dopo aver selezionato una traccia per assegnarla al
    canale corrispondente.



Comandi del pitch
39. Pitch Fader (fader del pitch): Regola la velocità di riproduzione della traccia. Quando
    impostato su 0%, un LED si accende vicino al fader.
40. LED di Takeover: Quando si seleziona il deck opposto servendosi del pulsante Deck, la
    posizione del fader del pitch del NS6II potrebbe non corrispondere all'impostazione del
    Pitch per quel Deck nel software. Muovere lentamente il fader del pitch nella direzione
    indicata dalla freccia del LED di Takeover fino a quando non si spegne. A questo punto il
    fader del pitch corrisponde alla configurazione del Pitch presente nel software e può
    controllarlo nuovamente.
41. Pitch Bend ( + / – ) (bend del pitch): Premere o tenere premuto uno di questi tasti per
    regolare temporaneamente la velocità di riproduzione della traccia. Una volta rilasciato, la
    riproduzione della traccia tornerà alla velocità designata dal fader del pitch.
   Tenere premuto Shift e premere questi tasti per regolare l’intervallo di tempo in avanti (+) o
   indietro (–).




                                                                                               55
Comandi effeti
42. FX 1, FX 2, FX 3: questi tasti hanno funzioni diverse su ciascun deck a seconda della
    modalità FX corrente.
     •   Modalità FX singolo: FX 1 attiva o disattiva l’effetto; FX 2 attiva o disattiva il primo
         parametro effetti (se del caso); FX 3 attiva o disattiva il secondo parametro effetti (se
         del caso). Tenere premuto Shift e premere FX 1 per selezionare l’effetto desiderato.
         Alternativamente, tenere premuto Shift e girare la manopola FX presente sotto il
         nome dell’effetto per spostarsi rapidamente lungo la lista.
     •   Modalità FX multiplo: i pulsanti attivano o disattivano il primo, secondo e terzo
         effetto nella catena effetti, rispettivamente. Tenere premuto Shift e premere uno dei
         tasti per selezionare l’effetto per quel punto nella catena effetti. Alternativamente,
         tenere premuto Shift e girare la manopola FX presente sotto il nome dell’effetto per
         spostarsi rapidamente lungo la lista.
43. Manopola FX 1, manopola FX 2, manopola FX 3: queste manopole hanno funzioni
    diverse su ciascun deck a seconda della modalità FX corrente.
     •   Modalità FX singolo: la manopola FX 1 controlla l’equilibrio “wet-dry” dell’effetto; la
         manopola FX 2 controlla il parametro del primo effetto; la manopola FX 3 controlla il
         parametro del secondo effetto. Quando la modalità Touch è attiva, toccare la
         manopola FX 1 per attivare il suo effetto e lasciare la manopola per disattivarlo.
     •   Modalità FX multiplo: le manopole controllano l’equilibrio “wet-dry” del primo, secondo e
         terzo effetto nella catena effetti, rispettivamente. Quando la modalità Touch è attiva,
         toccare una manopola per attivare il relativo effetto e lasciare la manopola per disattivarlo.
44. Beat / Mode: battere questo tasto ripetutamente, al tempo desiderato, per impostare la
    frequenza degli oscillatori a bassa frequenza degli effetti (LFO). Tenere premuto questo
    tasto per riportare il Beat Multiplier al BPM del deck. Tenere premuto Shift e premere
    questo tasto per passare dalla modalità FX singolo alla modalità FX multiplo.
45. Manopola beat: girare questa manopola per impostare la divisione di tempo per gli effetti
    selezionati.
46. FX Assign: Servirsi di questi tasti per applicare l’effetto A e/o B al canale corrispondente.
    (Ciascun effetto può essere applicato ad uno dei quattro canali.)
47. Filtro canale: girare questa manopola per regolare il filtro sul canale corrispondente. Il tipo
    di filtro regolato dipende dal tasto modalità filtro.
48. Modalità filtro: premere questo tasto per cambiare la modalità filtro (off, Modalità Filter-
    Roll o Modalità Filtro-FX), che influisce sulle manopole del filtro canale.
     •   Off: quando questo tasto è su off, la manopola filtro canale applicherà e regolerà un
         filtro passa basso al canale corrispondente quando viene girata in senso antiorario o
         un filtro passa alto quando viene girata in senso orario.
     •   Modalità Filter-Roll: premere questo tasto una volta per attivare la modalità Filter-Roll
         (il tasto si accende di rosso). La manopola filtro canale applicherà e regolerà un filtro
         passa basso al canale corrispondente quando viene girata in senso antiorario o un
         filtro passa alto quando viene girata in senso orario. Inoltre, applicherà un Loop Roll al
         filtro e diminuirà in lunghezza man mano che la manopola si allontana dalla posizione
         centrale. Premere questo tasto una volta per disattivare la modalità Filter-Roll.
     •   Modalità Filtro-FX: tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per attivare la modalità
         Filtro-FX (il tasto lampeggerà di rosso). La manopola filtro canale applicherà e regolerà
         un filtro passa basso al canale corrispondente quando viene girata in senso antiorario o
         un filtro passa alto quando viene girata in senso orario. Inoltre, regolerà il parametro 1
         degli effetti applicati a tale canale man mano che la manopola si allontana dalla posizione
         centrale. Premere questo tasto una volta per disattivare la modalità Filtro-FX.



56
Display

1. Deck attivo: indica il deck attivo.
2. Posizione del piatto: mostra           a   display   la
                                                                              1
   posizione della traccia corrente.
3. Barre di tempo: forniscono un riferimento visivo
                                                                  2                           3
   del tempo rimanente nella traccia corrente.
   Quando la traccia è quasi finita, le barre
   lampeggiano per avvertimento.                              5
4. Tempo trascorso/rimanente: mostra a display il
   tempo trascorso o rimanente della traccia                                                      9
   corrente. Premere Shift e il tasto Scratch per
   modificare la visualizzazione a display.                   4
5. BPM: mostra a display il BPM della traccia
   selezionata.
                                                                  6                            8
6. Regolazione del pitch: indica la direzione in cui
   muovere il fader del pitch per far corrispondere il                         7
   BPM della traccia corrente alla traccia presente
   sull'altro deck.
7. Pitch: mostra a display il pitch della traccia corrente.
8. Gamma del pitch: mostra a display la gamma corrente del pitch.
9. Blocco tasti: questa icona si illumina quando il blocco tasti è attivo per il deck in uso. Si veda il
   manuale del Serato DJ Intro per maggiori informazioni sul blocco tasti.


Pannello anteriore




        8   7   6    8   7    6   5                                       4    3   2      1


1. Cuffie (6,35 mm o 3,5 mm): Collegare le cuffie da 6,35 mm o 3,5 mm (1/4" o 1/8") a questa
   uscita per il monitoraggio del mix e il cueing.
2. Volume cuffie: Regola il livello del volume dell'uscita cuffie.
3. Split Cue: Quando questo interruttore è impostato su On, l'audio delle cuffie sarà "suddiviso" in
   modo che tutti i canali inviati a Cue vengano mixati a mono e applicati al canale cuffie di sinistra,
   e che il mix Program venga mixato a mono e applicato al canale destro. Quando l'interruttore è
   impostato su Off, l'audio Cue e Program verranno "miscelati" insieme.
4. Cue Mix: Passa a mixare tra Cue e Program nel canale cuffie. Quando impostato all'estrema
   sinistra, si udranno unicamente i canali convogliati a Cue. Quando impostato all'estrema destra,
   si udrà solo il mix programma.
5. Crossfader Contour (variazione crossfader): regola la variazione della curva del crossfader.
   Girare la manopola verso sinistra per una dissolvenza uniforme (mix) oppure verso destra per un
   taglio netto (scratch). La posizione centrale è un’impostazione tipica per esibizioni in discoteca.
6. Gain Microfono: Regola il livello audio del canale microfono.
7. Mic High (acuti di microfono): Regola le frequenze alte (treble) del canale microfono.
8. Mic Low (bassi di microfono): Regola le frequenze basse (bass) del canale microfono.




                                                                                                     57
Pannello posteriore


                                      7
     1       3
         2       4   6   5    5   6                               8    9     10       11


1. Interruttore di alimentazione: Accende e spegne il NS6II. Accendere il mixer dopo aver
   collegato tutti i dispositivi d'ingresso e prima di accendere gli amplificatori. Spegnere gli
   amplificatori prima di spegnere il NS6II.
2. Ingresso di alimentazione: Servirsi dell'adattatore di alimentazione in dotazione (12 V, 2
   A, centro-positivo) per collegare il NS6II ad una presa di alimentazione. Ad alimentazione
   spenta, collegare l'alimentazione elettrica innanzitutto nel NS6II, quindi ad una presa
   elettrica.
3. Blocco dei cavi: si può fissare i cavi a questo dispositivo per evitare scollegarto
   accidentalmente.
4. Porta USB 1/2: servirsi di un cavo USB standard (in dotazione) per collegare ciascuna
   porta USB a una porta USB disponibile sul computer. Queste 2 porte consentono di
   controllare l’audio di 2 computer contemporaneamente, cosa che consente di ottenere
   transizioni ininterrotte quando si passa da un DJ a un altro.
     Per impostare un canale che controlli il computer, impostare il relativo selettore di
     ingressi su PC, e il relativo selettore USB sulla porta desiderata (USB1 o USB2).
5. Ingressi line/phono (RCA): Collegare le sorgenti audio a questi ingressi. Questi ingressi
   sono in grado di accettare sia segnali a livello di linea che a livello phono.
6. Interruttore linea/phono: Posizionare correttamente questo interruttore, a seconda del
   dispositivo collegato agli ingressi Linea/Phono. Se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono,
   impostare l’interruttore su Phono per garantire l’amplificazione aggiuntiva necessaria per i
   segnali a livello phono. Se si utilizza un dispositivo a livello di linea quale un lettore CD o
   un campionatore, impostare l’interruttore su Line (linea).
7. Terminale di messa a terra: Se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono dotati di cavo di
   messa a terra, questo va collegato a questi terminali. Se si verifica un “ronzio” o un
   “brusio” basso, ciò può significare che i giradischi non sono messi a terra.
     Nota bene: alcuni giradischi hanno il cavo di messa a terra incorporato nel collegamento
     RCA e, di conseguenza, non è necessario collegare nulla al terminale di messa a terra.
8. Ingressi Mic (1/4"): collegare microfoni da 1/4" (6,35 mm) a questi ingressi. I comandi del
   microfono si trovano sul pannello anteriore. I segnali audio degli ingressi vengono
   convogliati direttamente a Mix Programma e Cue Mix.
9. Uscita booth (RCA): Servirsi di cavi standard RCA per collegare questa uscita ad un
   sistema di monitoraggio. Il livello di questa uscita è controllato tramite la manopola Booth
   sul pannello superiore.
10. Uscita master (RCA): Servirsi di cavi standard RCA per collegare questa uscita Master ad
    una cassa o ad un sistema di amplificatori. Il livello di questa uscita è controllato tramite la
    manopola Master sul pannello superiore.
11. Uscita master (bilanciata, XLR): Collegare questa uscita XLR a bassa impedenza ad un
    impianto PA o a monitor. Il livello di questa uscita è controllato tramite la manopola Master
    sul pannello superiore.




58
Benutzerhandbuch (Deutsch)
Einführung

Lieferumfang

NS6II
USB-Kabel
Netzteil
Software-Download-Karte
Schnellstart-Anleitung
Sicherheitshinweise und Garantieinformationen


Kundendienst

Für die neuesten Informationen zu diesem Produkt (Dokumentation, technische Daten,
Systemanforderungen, Informationen zur Kompatibilität etc.) und zur Produktregistrierung
besuchen Sie bitte: numark.com.
Für zusätzlichen Produkt-Support besuchen Sie numark.com/support.


Setup
Vor Inbetriebnahme:
•   Lesen Sie vor Inbetriebnahme            des    NS6II   bitte   Sicherheitshinweise    und
    Garantieinformationen durch.
•   Prüfen Sie nach, ob alle unter Lieferumfang aufgeführten Teile vorhanden sind.
•   Entfernen Sie die blaue Folie von den Plattentellern bevor Sie den NS6II verwenden.


1. Installieren Sie Treiber und Software

Windows Anwender: Installieren Sie die Treiber bevor Sie die Software installieren.

Treiber (Windows Anwender): Laden Sie die neuesten Versionen der Treiber auf
numark.com/NS6II herunter. (Während der Installation wird der Anschluss des NS6II an den
Computer verlangt.)

Software: Laden Sie die neueste Version von Serato DJ auf serato.com herunter.




                                                                                           59
2. Schließen Sie die Geräte an und beginnen Sie zu mixen!

Wenn Sie den NS6II verbinden möchten, folgen Sie immer dieser Abfolge von Schritten:
1. Stellen Sie sicher, dass alle Geräte ausgeschaltet sind und alle Fader und Lautstärkeregler
   auf "null" stehen.
2. Schließen Sie alle Eingabequellen (Mikrophone, CD-Players, usw.) an den NS6II an.
3. Schließen Sie alle Ausgabegeräte (Verstärker, Sub-Mixer, Recorder, usw.) an den NS6II an.
4. Schließen Sie alle Geräte an das Netz an und schalten Sie die Geräte in der richtigen
   Reihenfolge ein.
       • Bei Spielbeginn (1) Eingabequellen, (2) NS6II und (3) Ausgabegeräte einschalten.
       • Bei Spielende diese Reihenfolge umkehren und (1) Ausgabegeräte, (2) NS6II und (3)
         Eingabequellen ausschalten.
5. Schließen Sie den NS6II an den Computer mit einem USB-Kabel (beigelegt) und an die
   Kopfhörer an.
6. Öffnen Sie die Serato DJ-Software und los geht's! Für weitere Informationen über die
   Verwendung on Serato DJ mit NS6II besuchen Sie serato.com/dj/support und wählen
   Numark NS6II.

Wichtig:
•     Berühren Sie die Plattenteller um die berührungsempfindliche Schaltung zu kalibrieren,
      bevor Sie den NS6II benutzen.
•     Wird der NS6II wieder and den PC angeschlossen, behält der NS6II die vorherigen
      Programmeinstellungen bei (z. B. Tonhöhe, Effektparameter, usw.). Dies ist vor Abspielen
      eines Musikstücks zu beachten.

Anschlussübersicht

                Computer(s)                                       House Verstärker

                                              Mikrofon




                                             Rückseite                                  Kopfhörer
                                                                                      (Vorderseite)

    Steckdose




                       CD-Spieler      Plattenspieler              Booth Verstärker


Teile, die nicht unter Einführung > Lieferumfang angegeben sind, sind separat erhältlich.


60
Wechsel zwischen DJs
Mit dem NS6II können zwei Computer mit Serato DJ gleichzeitig eine Verbindung zum Gerät
herzustellen. Auf diese Weise können zwei DJs gleichzeitig spielen und den DJ-Wechsel erleichtern.
Gehen Sie wie folgt vor, wenn ein Computer bereits mit dem NS6II verbunden ist und spielt (PC1):
1. Verbinden Sie einen zweiten Computer (PC2) mit dem freien USB-Port auf der Rückseite des
   NS6II. Sobald der Computer angeschlossen ist, zeigt die Software alle Decks als „offline“ an. Der
   erste Computer steuert weiterhin beide Seiten des NS6II.
2. Bevor Sie PC2 die Steuerung einer Seite des NS6II übergeben, achten Sie darauf, dass kein
   Audio von PC2 auf diesem Deck spielt, da es auf „offline“ schalten wird. Halten Sie anschließend
   die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken dann die Taste Browse Focus/PC1/PC2 auf dem
   Deck, das nicht spielt.
   PC2 wird nun beide Kanäle auf dieser Seite des Controllers steuern und automatisch auf die
   Browse-Controls fokussieren. Verwenden Sie den Browse-Regler, um durch die Bibliothek zu
   blättern und fügen dem Deck dann den gewünschten Track hinzu, indem Sie die Schaltfläche
   Load drücken.
3. Spielen Sie einen Track am PC2-Deck ab und mischen Sie ihn, wenn Sie soweit sind - jetzt
   haben Sie Audiodaten von beiden Computern im Mix. Während PC1 beispielsweise Deck A (und
   die Mixer-Regler für Kanäle 1 & 3) zur Steuerung seines Computers verwendet, kann PC2 auch
   Deck B (und die Mixer-Regler für Kanäle 2 & 4) verwenden, um seinen Computer zu steuern.
   Drücken Sie die Taste Browse Focus/PC1/PC2 auf dem Deck, das nicht spielt, um die
   Steuerung des Browse-Reglers zu wechseln, während ein Computer jedes Deck steuert.
4. Blenden Sie die Audio-Wiedergabe vom PC1-Computer in die Audio-Wiedergabe des PC2-
   Computers. Wenn nur das Audiomaterial vom PC2-Computer im Mix belassen wurde, halten Sie
   die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken die Taste Browse Focus / PC1/PC2 auf dem Deck,
   das nicht spielt. Jetzt verwendet PC2 sowohl Deck A als auch B, um ihren Computer zu steuern.
   Sie können nun den PC1-Computer vom NS6II trennen.
Hinweis: Wenn ein Deck bereits von einem Computer benutzt wird, wechselt das virtuelle Deck des
Computers (in Serato DJ) auf einen schwarzen Hintergrund mit den Worten IN USE.


          Schritte 1                        Schritte 2                        Schritte 3




                                                                                                  61
Funktionen

Oberseite
                                                17       34         35    33    36        37        16
     5         43     43    43            45                                                              43         43       43    45          5

                42     42       42         44            38     38               38        38            42         42       42    44

         3                                      4          46     46           46        46         4                                      48
                            24                                                                                       24
                                                     6     7         7         7         7      6
         25                                                                                                                                25
                                                     8     9    8    9    8    9     8   9      8

         22                                               10         10        10        10                                                22

                                                          11         11        11        11
     39                     1                                                                                            1                  39
                                                          47         47        47        47


                                          18             13 14 13 14 13 14 13 14                         18
              40                                                                                                                      40
                23                              2                                                   2                               23
                                                          12         12        12        12
                 28   29    30       31    32                                                            28    29    30      31    32
                                                     21                                       21
         27                                          20                                       20                                           27
                            26                                                                                       26
         41                                                               15                                                               41
                                                     19                                       19


Verwendete Bezeichnungen:
• Audioverweis: Die augenblickliche Position in einem Musikstück von wo aus der Abspielvorgang
   beginnt. Wird ein Musikstück gewählt und abgespielt, fängt der Audio Pointer gewöhnlich am
   Anfang an und hört am Ende auf.
• Cue-Punkt: Eine im Musikstück markierte Position, welche dauerhaft durch die Software
   gespeichert wird. Cue-Punkte können mit den Cue Controls gesetzt, wieder abgerufen oder
   gelöscht werden.
• Temporärer Cue-Punkt: Eine im Musikstück markierte Position, die nur solange vorhanden ist,
   wie das Musikstück im Deck geladen ist. Ein temporärer Cue-Punkt kann mit der Cue-Taste
   gesetzt und wieder abgerufen werden.

Allgemeine Bedienelemente
1. Display: In diesem Fenster sind Informationen über den aktuellen Track zu sehen. Siehe Display
         für weitere Informationen.
2. Umschalten: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um auf sekundäre Funktionen (in roter Schrift)
         anderer Bedienelemente am NS6II zuzugreifen.
3. Touch-Modus: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Touch-Modus zu ändern. Drücken Sie einmal,
         um auf die berührungskapazitiven Funktionen des FX 1-Regler, des FX 2-Reglers und des FX
         3-Reglers auf Ihrem NS6II zuzugreifen. Drücken Sie ein zweites Mal, um auf die
         berührungskapazitiven Funktionen dieser Regler und der EQ-Regler zuzugreifen (Kanalhöhen,
         Kanalmitten und Kanalbässe). Diese Funktionen werden nur temporär und nicht permanent
         aktiviert.
4. Ebene: Wählt aus, welche Ebene in der Software vom Hardware-Deck gesteuert wird. Deck A
         kann Ebene 1 oder 3 steuern; Deck B kann Ebene 2 oder 4 steuern.
5. Browse Focus / PC1/PC2: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Fokus des Scroll-Reglers von
         einem angeschlossenen Computer auf einen anderen zu verschieben.
         Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann diese Taste, um auszuwählen, ob
         das Deck den Computer steuert, der mit dem USB Port 1 oder mit dem USB Port 2 verbunden
         ist. Denken Sie daran, den Eingangswahlschalter des Kanals auf PC zu setzen, wenn Sie
         Audiodaten aus dieser Software-Layer abspielen möchten.
         Wenn nur ein Computer angeschlossen ist, hat diese Taste keine Funktion.

62
Mixer-Controls
6. Eingangswahlschalter: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf die gewünschte Audio-Quelle
   dieses Kanals ein—PC (ein Track, der auf dieser Ebene in der Software abgespielt wird)
   oder Line (ein Gerät, das an den Line/Phono auf der Rückseite des NS6II angeschlossen
   ist).
   Hinweis: Bitte beachten Sie, dass die Line/Phono-Wahlschalter auf der Rückseite des
   NS6II ebenfalls richtig eingestellt sein müssen.
7. Gain Trim: Dient zur Einstellung des Pre-Faders und den Pre-EQ Audiopegel des
   entsprechenden Kanals im Programm.
8. LED Meter: Anzeige der Audio-Pegel des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal.
9. Kanal-Höhen: Stellt die Höhen des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal ein.
10. Kanal-Mitten: Stellt die Mitten des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal ein.
11. Kanal-Bässe: Stellt die Bässe des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal ein.
12. Kanal-Fader: Bestimmt den Audiopegel, der zum Program Mix in Programm gesendet
    wird.
13. PFL: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das Pre-Fader-Signal dieses Kanals an den Cue-Kanal
    zum Monitoring zu senden. Wenn die Taste aktiviert ist, leuchtet sie auf. Durch einmaliges
    Drücken einer PFL-Taste laden Sie nur den jeweiligen Kanal (und deaktivieren das PFL-
    Monitoring für die anderen Kanäle). Um mehrere Kanäle gleichzeitig zu laden, drücken Sie
    die jeweiligen PFL-Tasten für die betreffenden Kanäle gleichzeitig.
14. Crossfader-Zuordnung: Sendet die Audio-Wiedergabe auf den entsprechenden Kanal auf
    der einen Seite des Crossfaders (A oder B) oder umgeht den Crossfader und sendet das
    Audiosignal direkt an den Program Mix (Center, Off).
15. Crossfader: Überblendung von Tonsignalen zwischen den, links und rechts vom
    Crossfader angeordneten, Kanälen.
16. Master Volume: Steuert die Ausgangslautstärke des Program Mixes.
17. Booth Volume: Steuert die Ausgangslautstärke des Booth Ausgangs.




                                                                                            63
Wiedergabefunktionen
18. Plattenteller: Steuert den Audio-Zeiger innerhalb der Software.
     Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und bewegen Sie den Plattenteller, um schnell
     durch den Track zu navigieren.
19. Wiedergabe/Pause: Mit dieser Taste kann die Wiedergabe pausiert oder fortgesetzt
    werden.
     Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie anschließend diese Taste, um
     den Track ab dem zuletzt festgelegten Cue-Punkt mit einem "Stottereffekt" zu versehen.
20. Cue: Wenn die Wiedergabe des Decks pausiert wird, können Sie einen temporären Cue-
    Punkt setzen, indem Sie den Plattenteller bewegen, den Audio-Zeiger in die gewünschte
    Position bringen und dann die Cue-Taste drücken.
     Während der Wiedergabe können Sie die Cue-Taste drücken, um den Track zu diesem
     temporären Cue-Punkt zurückzubringen. (Wenn Sie keinen temporären Cue-Punkt
     eingestellt haben, beginnt die Wiedergabe wieder am Beginn des Tracks.)
     Wenn das Deck pausiert wurde, können Sie die Cue-Taste gedrückt halten, um den Track
     ab dem temporären Cue-Punkt wiederzugeben. Wenn Sie die Cue-Taste loslassen, wird
     der Track am temporären Cue-Punkt pausiert. Um die Wiedergabe fortzusetzen ohne zum
     temporären Cue-Punkt zurückzuspringen, halten Sie erst die Cue-Taste und dann die
     Wiedergabe-Taste gedrückt und lassen Sie anschließend beide Tasten los.
     Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie anschließend diese Taste, um
     zum Anfang des Tracks zurückzuspringen.
21. Sync: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um Tempo und Phase des jeweiligen Decks mit dem
    Tempo und der Phase des anderen Decks automatisch zu synchronisieren. Halten Sie die
    Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um Sync zu deaktivieren.
22. Bleep / Keylock: Rückwärtiges Abspielen des Musikstücks auf dem jeweiligen Deck. Wird
    die Taste erneut gedrückt, findet das Abspielen wieder von der Position statt, die auch
    ohne den Einsatz der Bleep-Funktion erreicht worden wäre (also als ob das Musikstück die
    ganze Zeit normal abgespielt worden wäre).
     Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um Keylock
     aktivieren oder deaktivieren. Die Tonhöhe des Songs wird, unabhängig von der Position
     des Pitch Faders, arretiert. Mit dieser Funktion können Sie die Geschwindigkeit der Musik
     justieren, ohne dass sich die Tonhöhe ändert.
23. Scratch: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Scratch-Modus zu aktivieren oder deaktivieren.
    In diesem Modus können Sie den Mittelteil des Plattentellers berühren, damit der
    Plattenspieler scratcht, wenn Sie ihn drehen. Wenn der Scratch-Modus deaktiviert ist, hat
    der Mittelteil des Plattentellers einen Pitch Bend-Effekt, wenn Sie ihn drehen.
     Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken dann diese Taste, um zwischen der
     verstrichenen Zeit und der verbleibenden Zeit in der Jog Wheel-Anzeige des
     entsprechenden Decks zu wechseln.
24. Strip Search: Die Länge dieses Streifens bedeutet die gesamte Länge des Musikstücks.
    Mit dem Finger einen Punkt entlang dieses Sensors berühren, um genau an diesen Punkt
    im Musikstück zu gelangen. (Zum Durchlaufen eines Musikstücks empfiehlt es sich den PC
    zu verwenden, anstatt den Finger über den Streifen zu streichen.)
25. Verschieben / Quantize: Wenn Sie das Taktraster der Software verwenden, halten Sie
    Verschieben gedrückt und bewegen Sie den Plattenteller, um das gesamte Taktraster nach
    rechts oder links zu "rücken" (d.h. verschieben oder bewegen).
     Drücken Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie die Taste Slip am Deck (linke
     Seite), um die Option Quantisieren für Layer 1 oder 3 zu aktivieren/deaktivieren. Drücken
     Sie die Umschalttaste und halten Sie sie gedrückt. Drücken Sie die Taste Slip am Deck B
     (rechte Seite), um die Quantisierung für Layer 2 oder 4 zu aktivieren/deaktivieren. Ist dies
     aktiviert, werden eingestellte und getriggerte Cues und Loops in das Beat-Grid eingefügt.

64
Pad-Modus Bedienelemente

26. Pads: Je nach aktuellem Pad-Modus besitzen diese Pads unterschiedliche Funktionen auf
    jedem Deck. Sie sind anschlagsdynamisch (allerdings nur in bestimmten Modi), robust und
    einfach zu spielen. Für diesen Abschnitt haben wir den Pads die hier angegebenen Zahlen
    zugewiesen.



                     Pad 1          Pad 2          Pad 3         Pad 4



                     Pad 5          Pad 6          Pad 7         Pad 8




27. Parameter < / >: Diese Tasten haben in jedem Pad-Modus unterschiedliche Funktionen.
    Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und verwenden Sie diese Tasten, um auf
    Sekundärparameter zuzugreifen.
   Wenn Sie die Serato Pitch N’ Time-Expansion erworben haben, können Sie die
   Umschalttaste gedrückt halten und dann diese Tasten drücken, um die Tonart des
   aktuellen Tracks nach unten (<) oder oben (>) zu korrigieren.
28. Cues: Mit dieser Pad-Modus-Taste kann zwischen zwei Pad-Modi gewechselt werden:
    Hot Cue-Modus und Hot Cue Auto-Loop-Modus. Wenn die Taste nicht leuchtet, wird beim
    erstmaligen Drücken der Taste immer der Hot Cue-Modus ausgewählt.
      •   Hot Cue-Modus: Jedes Pad weist einen Hot Cue-Punkt zu oder lässt den Track zu
          diesem Hot Cue-Punkt zurückspringen. Wenn ein Pad nicht leuchtet, können Sie
          einen Hot Cue-Punkt zuweisen, indem Sie diese Taste an der gewünschten Stelle in
          Ihrem Track drücken. Das Pad leuchtet nachdem der Punkt zugewiesen wurde.
          Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann ein Pad, um den
          zugewiesenen Hot Cue-Punkt zu löschen.
      •   Hot Cue Autoloop-Modus: Jedes Pad weist einen Hot Cue-Punkt zu oder lässt den
          Track zu diesem Hot Cue-Punkt zurückspringen. In beiden Fällen wird jedoch auch
          ein Autoloop an diesem Punkt erstellt. Die Länge des Autoloops wird in der Software
          festgelegt, Sie können diesen Wert jedoch auch mit der Taste Parameter < oder
          Parameter > erhöhen oder verringern.



                   Hot Cue 1      Hot Cue 2      Hot Cue 3      Hot Cue 4




                   Hot Cue 5      Hot Cue 6      Hot Cue 7      Hot Cue 8




   Wichtig: Wenn Sie das Serato Flip Expansion Pack gekauft haben, erfüllen die Tasten
   Parameter < und Parameter > im Hot Cue-Modus und Hot Cue Autoloop-Modus
   zusätzliche Funktionen, mit denen Sie Flips erstellen und steuern können. Siehe Flip
   Controls für weitere Informationen.



                                                                                           65
29. Auto / Roll: Diese Pad-Modus-Taste versetzt die Pads in zwei Modi: Autoloop-Modus und
    Loop-Roll-Modus. Wenn die Taste nicht leuchtet, wird beim erstmaligen Drücken der Taste
    immer der Autoloop-Modus ausgewählt.
     Hinweis: Die Pad-Layouts hier entsprechen der standardmäßigen Autoloop-Zeiteinteilung
     der Software. Wenn Sie den in der Software angezeigten Zeiteinteilungsbereich
     verschieben, ändert sich das Pad-Layout entsprechend.
       •   Autoloop-Modus: Jedes Pad triggert oder gibt einen Autoloop mit unterschiedlicher
           Länge frei. Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann die Taste
           Parameter < oder >, um den Autoloop nach vorne oder nach hinten zu verschieben.
       •   Loop-Roll-Modus: Jedes Pad löst einen temporären Loop-Roll aus. Drücken Sie
           die Taste Parameter < oder >, um die Zeiteinteilung der Loop-Roll zu ändern.


                    1/8-Schlag     1/4-Schlag     1/2-Schlag      1-Schlag




                     2-Schlag       4-Schlag       8-Schlag      16-Schlag



30. Loop: Mit dieser Pad Modus-Taste wechseln die Pads zwischen zwei Banken mit
    gespeicherten Loops und Loop-Controls. Wenn die Taste nicht leuchtet, wird beim
    erstmaligen Drücken der Taste immer die erste Bank ausgewählt.
       •   Modus Gespeicherter Loop: Mit den Pads 1-4 (obere Reihe) können Sie im Track
           zu einem Ihrer gespeicherten Loops springen. Mit den Pads 5-8 (untere Reihe)
           können Sie Loops erstellen und speichern. Die Pad-Layouts für die zwei Bänke sind
           identisch.
            o   Drücken Sie Pad 5, um den Loop In-Punkt einzustellen und anschließend Pad
                6, um den Loop Out-Punkt einzustellen und den Loop auszulösen.
            o   Um einen Loop zu speichern, während er aktiv ist, drücken Sie eines der Pads
                1-4 (obere Reihe), dem kein Loop zugewiesen wurde. Sie können dies
                unabhängig davon tun, auf welche Weise der Loop erstellt wurde (Modus
                Gespeicherter Loop, Autoloop-Modus, Loop- Roll-Modus etc.).
            o   Um einen gespeicherten Loop zu triggern, drücken Sie eines der Pads 1-4
                (obere Reihe), auf dem ein Loop gespeichert ist. Drücken Sie Pad 7, um den
                Loop zu aktivieren bzw. zu deaktivieren. Drücken Sie Pad 8, damit der Track
                zum zuletzt ausgelösten Loop zurückspringt und ihn erneut aktiviert ("Reloop").
            o   Um einen gespeicherten Loop zu löschen, halten Sie die Umschalttaste
                gedrückt und drücken dann auf das entsprechende Pad (Pads 1-4).
            o   Sie können die Länge eines Loops halbieren oder verdoppeln, indem Sie
                die Taste Parameter < oder > drücken.
            o   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann die Taste
                Parameter < oder >.


                      Loop 1         Loop 2         Loop 3         Loop 4



                                                 Aktivieren /
                     Loop In        Loop Out     deaktivieren      Reloop
                                                    Loop



66
31. Sampler: Mit dieser Pad-Modus-Taste kann zwischen zwei Pad-Modi gewechselt werden:
    Sample Player-Modus und Anschlagdynamischer Sample Trigger-Modus. Wenn die Taste
    nicht leuchtet, wird beim erstmaligen Drücken der Taste immer der Sample Player-Modus
    ausgewählt.
     •   Sample Player-Modus: Pads 1-6 lösen jeweils ein Sample aus, das Sie in der
         Software zuweisen können (die Lautstärke wird ebenfalls in der Software eingestellt).
         Unbeleuchteten Pads wurden keine Samples zugeordnet. Um die Wiedergabe eines
         Samples zu stoppen, halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann
         das entsprechende Pad (der Pads 1-3 oder Pads 4-6).
     •   Anschlagdynamischer Sample Trigger-Modus: Die Pads verhalten sich genauso
         wie die Pads im Sample Player-Modus, jedoch mit dem Unterschied, dass sie
         anschlagdynamisch reagieren - d.h., dass die Lautstärke mit der sie wiedergegeben
         werden, direkt von der Anschlagstärke abhängt. Dieser Modus kann Ihrer
         Performance eine "menschlichere Note" verleihen.


                                                               Wiedergabe-
                   Sample 1       Sample 2       Sample 3
                                                                 Modus



                                                                  Player-
                   Sample 4       Sample 5       Sample 6
                                                               Wiederholung



32. Slicer: Mit dieser Pad-Modus-Taste kann zwischen zwei Pad-Modi gewechselt werden:
    Slicer-Modus und Slicer Loop-Modus. Wenn die Taste nicht leuchtet, wird beim
    erstmaligen Drücken der Taste immer der Slicer-Modus ausgewählt.
   Wichtig: Damit der Slicer-Modus und der Slicer Loop-Modus funktioniert, muss Ihr Track
   ein Beat-Grid eingestellt haben.
     •   Slicer-Modus: Die acht Pads repräsentieren acht aufeinanderfolgende Schläge—
         sogenannte "Slices"—innerhalb des Beat-Grids. Das aktuell wiedergegebene Slice
         wird durch das aktuell beleuchtete Pad dargestellt; das Licht "bewegt sich durch die
         Pads", so wie es sich durch jedes der acht Slices bewegt. Drücken Sie ein Pad, um
         das entsprechende Slice zu spielen—halten Sie das Pad gedrückt, um das Slice als
         Loop wiederzugeben. Wenn Sie das Pad loslassen, wird der Track zur normalen
         Wiedergabe zu jenem Punkt zurückkehren, an dem sich der Track befinden würde,
         wenn Sie das Pad nie gedrückt hätten (so als ob der Track einfach normal
         weitergelaufen wäre).
         Drücken Sie die Taste Parameter < oder >, um den Wert der Slice-Quantisierung zu
         verringern oder zu erhöhen. Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken
         Sie dann die Taste Parameter < oder >, um die Größe des Slice-Bereichs zu
         verringern oder zu erhöhen.
     •   Slicer Loop-Modus: Die Pads verhalten sich genauso wie im Slicer-Modus, mit
         dem Unterschied, dass die Phrase mit den acht Slices als kontinuierlicher Loop im
         Track wiedergegeben wird.


                    Slice 1        Slice 2        Slice 3         Slice 4




                    Slice 5        Slice 6        Slice 7         Slice 8




                                                                                            67
Flip Controls
Wenn Sie das Serato Flip Expansion Pack gekauft haben, können Sie Ihre Flips mit folgenden
Befehlen erstellen und kontrollieren:
 •   Im Hot Cue-Modus oder Hot Cue Autoloop-Modus (drücken Sie Cues, um in einen
     dieser Modi zu gelangen):
      o   Um die Flip-Aufnahmebereitschaft zu aktivieren/deaktivieren, drücken Sie die
          Taste Parameter <.
      o   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie die Taste Parameter <,
          um das Looping für das Flip zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren.
      o   Um sofort mit der Wiedergabe des zuletzt gespielten (oder noch spielenden)
          Flip zu beginnen, drücken Sie die Taste Parameter >. Wenn Sie dies während der
          Aufnahme eines Flip tun, wird die Aufnahme stoppen und die Wiedergabe des Flip
          beginnen.
      o   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie die Taste Parameter >,
          um den aktuellen Flip zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren. Wenn sich die
          Abspielposition noch nicht im Flip-Bereich befindet, wird das Flip erst abgespielt,
          wenn die Abspielposition das Flip erreicht hat.
 •   Im Flip-Modus (halten Sie die Umschalttaste und drücken Sie Cues, um in diesen
     Modus zu gelangen):
      o   In diesem Modus gilt: unbeleuchteten Pads wurde kein Flip zugewiesen; konstant
          leuchtenden Pads wurde ein Flip zugeordnet, welcher jedoch nicht abgespielt wird;
          blinkenden Pads wurde ein Flip zugeordnet, der derzeit abgespielt wird.
      o   Um einem Pad einen Flip zuzuordnen, halten Sie Pad 8 gedrückt und drücken
          dann Pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 oder 7.
      o   Um einen zugewiesene Flip wiederzugeben, drücken Sie Pad 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 oder 7
          (wenn dem betreffenden Pad ein Flip zugewiesen wurde).
      o   Um die Wiedergabe eines Flips sofort zu stoppen, halten Sie die Umschalttaste
          gedrückt und drücken Sie dann das entsprechende Pad.
      o   Um die Länge des Flips automatisch anzupassen, damit es sich in das Beat-
          Grid (Loop Snap) einfügt, halten Sie Pad 4 gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf ein
          Pad, dem ein Flip zugeordnet ist.
          Wichtig: Ihr Track muss ein fixes Beat-Grid haben, damit die Loop Snap-Funktion
          verwendet werden kann.



                     Flip 1         Flip 2         Flip 3      Loop Snap



                                                                Zuweisen
                     Flip 4         Flip 5         Flip 6
                                                                  Flip




68
Navigation-Funktionen
33. Scroll Knob: Mit diesem Drehregler können die Musikstücke, Verzeichnisse, usw. Im
    Programm durchlaufen werden. Der Regler kann auch gedrückt werden, um zwischen den
    im Programm angezeigten Feldern umzuschalten.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drehen Sie diesen Knopf, um schnell zu
   blättern.
34. Ansicht / Sortieren nach BPM: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um durch die verfügbaren
    Software-Anzeige-Modi zu blättern.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf diese Taste, um die
   Bibliothek nach BPM zu sortieren.
35. Zurück / Sortieren nach Song: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Wähler in den Software-
    Feldern zurück zu bewegen.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf diese Taste, um die
   Bibliothek nach Songs zu sortieren.
36. Bereich / Sortieren nach Tonart: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um durch die Felder Dateien,
    Durchsuchen, Vorbereiten und Verlauf zu blättern.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf diese Taste, um die
   Bibliothek nach Tonart zu sortieren.
37. L. Vorbereiten / Sortieren nach Interpret: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um der Track-Liste
    einen ausgewählten Titel im Vorbereitungsbereich der Software hinzuzufügen.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf diese Taste, um die
   Bibliothek nach Interpret zu sortieren.
38. Laden: Drücken Sie eine dieser Tasten, während ein Track ausgewählt ist, um sie dem
    entsprechenden Kanal zuzuordnen.


Pitch-Funktionen
39. Pitch Fader: Zur Einstellung der Wiedergabegeschwindigkeit des Musikstücks. Eine direkt
    neben dem Fader befindliche LED leuchtet auf, sobald dieser auf 0% gesetzt ist.
40. Takeover LEDs: Wird das andere Deck mit dem Deck-Schalter gewählt, stimmt unter
    Umständen die Position des Pitch Faders des NS6II nicht mit der Tonhöheneinstellung
    des anderen Decks im Programm überein. Schieben Sie den Pitch Fader langsam in die
    vom Takeover LED angegebene Richtung, bis diese erlischt. Jetzt stimmt der Pitch Fader
    mit der Tonhöheneinstellung im Programm überein und kann diese wieder steuern.
41. Pitch Bend (+/–): Drücken oder halten Sie eine der beiden Tasten, um die
    Wiedergabegeschwindigkeit des Musikstücks zeitweise zu verändern. Wird die Taste
    losgelassen, kehrt die Geschwindigkeit des Musikstücks zu dem durch den Pitch Fader
    eingestellten Wert zurück.
   Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann diese Tasten, um den
   Tempobereich nach oben (+) oder unten (–) zu korrigieren.




                                                                                         69
Steuerelemente für Effekte
42. FX 1, FX 2, FX 3: Je nach aktuellem FX-Modus besitzen diese Tasten auf jedem Deck
    verschiedene Funktionen.
     • Einzeleffekt-Modus: FX 1 aktiviert oder deaktiviert den Effekt; FX 2 aktiviert oder deaktiviert
         den ersten Effekt-Parameter (falls vorhanden); FX 3 aktiviert oder deaktiviert den zweiten
         Effekt-Parameter (falls vorhanden). Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken die
         Taste FX 1, um den gewünschten Effekt auszuwählen. Wahlweise können Sie auch die
         Umschalttaste gedrückt halten und den FX-Regler unter dem Effektnamen drehen, um
         schnell durch die Liste zu navigieren.
     • Multieffekt-Modus: Diese Tasten aktivieren oder deaktivieren jeweils den ersten, zweiten und
         dritten Effekt in der Effektkette. Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie eine
         der Tasten, um den Effekt für diese Position in der Effektkette auszuwählen. Wahlweise
         können Sie auch die Umschalttaste gedrückt halten und den FX-Regler unter dem
         Effektnamen drehen, um schnell durch die Liste zu navigieren.
43. Regler FX 1, FX 2 und FX 3: Je nach aktuellem FX-Modus besitzen diese Regler auf jedem
    Deck verschiedene Funktionen.
     • Einzeleffekt-Modus: Der Regler FX 1 regelt die "Wet/Dry-Balance" des Effekts, Regler FX
        2 steuert den ersten Effekt-Parameter und Regler FX 3 steuert den zweiten Effekt-
        Parameter. Ist der Touch-Modus aktiviert, berühren Sie den Regler FX 1, um seinen Effekt
        zu aktivieren und lassen ihn los, um den Effekt zu deaktivieren.
     • Multieffekt-Modus: Die Regler steuern die jeweilige "Wet/Dry-Balance" des ersten,
        zweiten und dritten Effekts in der Effektkette. Ist der Touch-Modus aktiviert, berühren Sie
        den Regler, um seinen Effekt zu aktivieren und lassen ihn los, um den Effekt zu
        deaktivieren.
44. Beat / Modus: Tippen Sie mehrmals im gewünschten Tempo auf diese Taste, um die LFO-
    Geschwindigkeit des Effekts festzulegen. Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um den Beat-
    Multiplikator auf die BPM des Decks zurückzusetzen. Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt
    und drücken Sie diese Taste, um zwischen Einzeleffekt-Modus und Multieffekt-Modus zu
    wechseln.
45. Beat-Regler: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Zeiteinteilung für die ausgewählten Effekte
    einzustellen.
46. FX Zuweisen: Verwenden Sie diese Tasten, um dem entsprechenden Kanal Effekt A und/oder B
    zuzuweisen. (jeder Effekt kann auf einen einzelnen oder auf alle vier Kanäle)
47. Kanal-Filter: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um das Filter am entsprechenden Kanal einzustellen.
    Der Filtertyp, der angepasst wird, hängt von der Taste Filter-Modus ab.
48. Filter-Modus: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Filter-Modus (aus, Filter-Roll-Modus oder Filter-
    FX-Modus) zu ändern, der die Kanalfilter-Regler beeinflusst.
     • Aus: Wenn diese Taste ausgeschaltet ist, wird der Kanalfilter-Regler aktiviert und wendet
          ein Tiefpassfilter auf den entsprechenden Kanal an, wenn Sie ihn gegen den Uhrzeigersinn
          drehen oder ein Hochpassfilter, wenn Sie ihn im Uhrzeigersinn drehen.
     • Filter Roll-Modus: Drücken Sie diese Taste einmal, um den Filter-Roll-Modus zu aktivieren
          (die Taste leuchtet rot auf). Der Kanalfilter-Regler wird aktiviert und wendet ein
          Tiefpassfilter auf den entsprechenden Kanal an, wenn Sie ihn gegen den Uhrzeigersinn
          drehen oder ein Hochpassfilter, wenn Sie ihn im Uhrzeigersinn drehen. Außerdem wird am
          Filter eine Loop Roll angewendet, die kürzer wird, je weiter der Regler von der mittleren
          Position wegbewegt wird. Drücken Sie diese Taste einmal, um den Filter-Roll-Modus zu
          deaktivieren.
     • Filter FX-Modus: Halten Sie die Umschalttaste gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf diese
          Taste, um den Filter-FX-Modus zu aktivieren (die Taste beginnt rot zu blinken). Der
          Kanalfilter-Regler wird aktiviert und wendet ein Tiefpassfilter auf den entsprechenden Kanal
          an, wenn Sie ihn gegen den Uhrzeigersinn drehen oder ein Hochpassfilter, wenn Sie ihn im
          Uhrzeigersinn drehen. Wird der Regler von der mittleren Position wegbewegt, passt dies
          außerdem den Parameter 1 der Effekte an, mit denen dieser Kanal versehen wurde. Drücken
          Sie diese Taste einmal, um den Filter-FX-Modus zu deaktivieren.



70
Display

1. Aktives Deck: Zeigt das aktuell aktive Deck an.
2. Position des Plattentellers: Zeigt die aktuelle                          1
   Track-Position.                                              2                           3
3. Zeitleiste: Bietet eine visuelle Referenz über die
   verbleibende Zeit des aktuellen Tracks. Wenn der
   Track beinahe das Ende erreicht hat, blinkt die
   Leiste zur Warnung.                                      5
4. Verbleibende/Verstrichene     Zeit:   Zeigt   die                                            9
   verbleibende bzw. verstrichene Zeit des aktuellen
   Tracks an. Drücken Sie die Umschalttaste und die
   Scratch-Taste, um die Anzeige zu ändern.
                                                           4
5. BPM: Zeigt die aktuelle BPM-Zahl für den
   ausgewählten Track.                                          6                            8
6. Pitch-Anpassung: Gibt die Richtung an, in die der
   Pitch-Fader bewegt werden muss, um die BPM-
                                                                             7
   Anzahl des aktuellen Tracks mit der BPM-Anzahl
   des anderen Decks zu synchronisieren.
7. Tonhöhe: Zeigt die Tonhöhe des aktuellen Tracks an.
8. Pitch-Range: Zeigt den aktuellen Pitch-Bereich an.
9. Keylock: Dieses Symbol leuchtet auf, wenn Keylock für das aktuelle Deck aktiv ist. Lesen Sie
   das Serato DJ Intro-Handbuch, um mehr über Keylock zu erfahren.


Vorderseite




       8    7   6   8    7   6   5                                      4    3    2     1


1. Kopfhörer (6,35 mm oder 3,5 mm): Schließen Sie hier Ihren Kopfhörer mit 6,35 mm oder 3,5
   mm Klinkenstecker an, um Signale vorzuhören und Cue Funktionen zu verwenden.
2. Kopfhörervolume: Stellt die Lautstärke des Kopfhörerausgangs ein.
3. Split Cue: Falls dieser Schalter auf On gesetzt ist, wird das Kopfhörersignal geteilt, so dass alle
   Kanäle, die zum Cue-Kanal senden, als Monosignal auf der linken Seite und das Mono Master
   Signal auf der rechten Seite gehört werden. Wenn der Schalter auf Off gesetzt ist, werden die
   Cue und Program Signale miteinander gemischt.
4. Cue Mix: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um im Kopfhörerkanal zwischen Cue und Program Audio
   überblenden zu können. Befindet sich der Regler ganz links, hören Sie über Kopfhörer nur die
   Kanäle, die zum Cue geroutet werden. Wenn der Regler ganz rechts steht, ist nur das Program
   Mix Signal hörbar.
5. Crossfader Contour: Passt die Neigung der Crossfader-Kurve an. Stellen Sie den Schalter nach
   links für sanfte Übergänge (Mixing) oder nach rechts für abrupte Übergänge (Scratching).
6. Mic-Gain: Dient zur Einstellung des Mikrofon-Audiopegels.
7. Mic High: Stellt die Höhen des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal ein.
8. Mic Low: Stellt die Bässe des Signals im entsprechenden Kanal ein.




                                                                                                   71
Rückseite


                                     7
     1       3
         2       4   6   5   5   6                           8    9    10       11


1. Power Schalter: Mit diesem Schalter können Sie den NS6II einschalten, nachdem alle
   Kabelverbindungen vorgenommen wurden. So vermeiden Sie Beschädigungen an Ihren
   Geräten. Schalten Sie den NS6II vor den Verstärkern ein und schalten Sie Ihre Verstärker
   aus, bevor Sie den NS6II ausschalten.
2. Power Eingang: Verwenden Sie das beiliegende Netzteil (12 V, 2 A, mittlerer Pin mit
   positiver Polarität), um den NS6II mit einer Steckdose zu verbinden. Verbinden Sie,
   während das Gerät ausgeschaltet ist, das Netzteil zuerst mit dem NS6II und stellen Sie
   anschließend die Verbindung zur Steckdose her.
3. Kabelhalterung: Sie können das Kabel mit dieser Kabelhalterung sichern, um ein
   versehentliches Trennen zu verhindern.
4. USB-Anschluss 1/2: Verwenden Sie ein handelsübliches USB-Kabel (im Lieferumfang
   enthalten), um jeden Port mit einem freien USB-Anschluss Ihres Computers zu verbinden.
   Mit diesen beiden Anschlüssen können Sie Audiodaten von 2 Computern gleichzeitig
   steuern, was einen nahtlosen Übergang beim DJ-Wechsel sorgt.
     Um einen Kanal zum Steuern Ihres Computers festzulegen, stellen Sie seinen
     Eingangswahlschalter auf PC und seinen USB-Wahlschalter auf den gewünschten
     Anschluss (USB1 oder USB2).
5. Line/Phono Eingänge (RCA): Schließen Sie an diese Eingänge Ihre Audioquellen an. An
   diese Eingänge können Sie Geräte mit Linepegel und Phonopegel anschließen.
6. Line/Phono Schalter: Abhängig davon, welches Gerät Sie an die Line/Phono Eingänge
   angeschlossen haben, müssen Sie diesen Schalter in die richtige Position setzen. Falls Sie
   Turntables mit Phonopegel anschließen, bringen Sie diesen Schalter in die Phono
   Position, um das Phono Signal zusätzlich zu verstärken, Bei der Verwendung eines
   Gerätes mit Linepegel, wie einem CD-Player, wählen Sie die Line Position.
7. Grounding Terminal: Bei der Verwendung von Phono Pegel Turntables mit einem
   Massekabel müssen Sie dieses an diese Erdungspins anschließen. Sollten Sie ein tiefes
   Brummen oder andere Klangstörungen hören, sind Ihre Turntables möglicherweise nicht
   geerdet.
     Hinweis: Bei einigen Turntables ist die Masseverbindung in die Chinch (RCA) Verbindung
     integriert—bei diesen Geräten benötigen Sie dann keine zusätzliche Masseverbindung.
8. Mic-Eingänge (6,35 mm): Verbinden Sie die 6,35 mm Mikrofone mit diesen Eingängen.
   Die Bedienelemente für das Mikrofon befinden sich auf der Frontplatte. Die Audiosignale
   des Eingangs werden direkt zum Programm-Mix und Cue Mix geroutet.
9. Booth Ausgang (RCA): Schließen Sie diesen Ausgang an ein Monitor System, z.B. einen
   Bodenmonitor oder ein Abhörsystem, an. Die Lautstärke dieses Ausgangs regeln Sie mit
   dem Booth-Regler auf der Oberseite des Mixers.
10. Master Ausgang (RCA): Verbinden Sie diesen Ausgang mit einem PA System,
    Aktivmonitoren oder einer HiFi-Anlage. Die Lautstärke dieses Ausgangs wird mit dem
    Master Regler auf der Mixer Oberseite geregelt.
11. Master Ausgang (Symmetrisch, XLR): Schließen Sie den symmetrischen XLR Ausgang
    an ein PA System oder an Aktivlautsprecher an. Die Lautstärke dieses Ausgangs wird mit
    dem Master Regler auf der Mixer Oberseite geregelt.

72
Appendix (English)
Technical Specifications
All specifications are measured at 20 kHz bandwidth.


Balanced Master Outputs (XLR)
Frequency Response         20 Hz – 20 kHz (+0.2 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio      109 dB (A-weighted, max output)
THD+N                      0.001% (1 kHz, -1 dBFS)
Maximum Output Level       +24 dBu


Unbalanced Master Outputs (RCA)
Frequency Response         20 Hz – 20 kHz (+0.1 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio      109 dB (A-weighted, max output)
THD+N                      0.002% (1 kHz, -1 dBFS)
Maximum Output Level       +16 dBV


Unbalanced Booth Outputs (RCA)
Frequency Response         20 Hz – 20 kHz (+0.1 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio      109 dB (A-weighted, max output)
THD+N                      0.004% (1 kHz, -1 dBFS)
Maximum Output Level       +16 dBV


Headphone Outputs (stereo 1/4” and 1/8” TRS)
Frequency Response         20 Hz – 20 kHz (+0.2 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio      104 dB (A-weighted, max output)
THD+N                      0.011% (1 kHz, -3 dBu, unloaded)
Maximum Output Level       +19 dBu (unloaded)
Power Output               55 mW RMS (per channel into 32Ω)


Line Inputs (unbalanced RCA)
Frequency Response         20 Hz – 20 kHz (+0.1 dB)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio      102 dB (A-weighted, max input level)
THD+N                      0.002% (1 kHz, +6 dBV, -1 dBFS)
Max Input Level            +8 dBV




                                                                  73
Phono Inputs (unbalanced RCA)
Signal-to-Noise Ratio           93 dB (A-weighted, max input level, 1kHz)
Max Input Level                 -22 dBV at 1khz


Mic Inputs (balanced 1/4” TRS)
Max Input Level                 -18 dBu

                                                                Specifications are subject to change without notice.



Trademarks & Licenses
Numark, Akai Professional, MPC, and Strip Search are trademarks of inMusic Brands, Inc., registered in the
U.S. and other countries.
Mac and OS X are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Serato, Serato DJ, and the Serato logo are registered trademarks of Serato Audio Research.
All other product names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners.




74
75
Manual Version 1.1
