User Guide               English (2–21)



Guía del usuario       Español (22–41)



Guide d'utilisation   Français (42–61)



Guida per l'uso         Italiano (62–81)



Benutzerhandbuch      Deutsch (82–101)



Appendix              English (102–103)
User Guide (English)
Introduction
Thank you for purchasing the Seventy-Two MKII. At Rane DJ, we know how serious music is
to you. That’s why we design our equipment with only one thing in mind—to make your
performance the best it can be.



Box Contents

Seventy-Two MKII
Power Cable
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Control Vinyl Records
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Control CDs
Serato Pitch 'n Time Download Card with Serial Number
(2) USB Cables
Rane Stickers
User Guide
Safety & Warranty Manual



Support

For the latest information about this product (documentation, technical specifications, system
requirements, compatibility information, etc.) and product registration, visit dj.rane.com.
For additional product support, visit dj.rane.com/support.




2
Setup
Items not listed under Introduction > Box Contents are sold separately.
1.    Visit dj.rane.com and log into your account. (Create an account if this is your first Rane product.)
      In your account, register your Seventy-Two MKII and download the Rane Control Panel.
      Windows users only: The Rane Control Panel contains drivers required for Windows.
2.    IMPORTANT: Occasionally, we may update Seventy-Two MKII’s firmware to improve its
      performance. Visit dj.rane.com to check for available firmware updates, especially after you
      update your software (firmware updates may address new software features).
3.    Download and install the latest version of Serato DJ Pro from serato.com.
4.    Using USB cables, connect the USB ports on the Rane Twelve (if using) or other USB MIDI
      controllers to the Twelve/Controller USB ports on Seventy-Two MKII.
5.    Connect audio input sources (microphones, turntables, etc.) to Seventy-Two MKII.
6.    Connect audio output devices (headphones, power amplifiers, loudspeakers, etc.) to Seventy-
      Two MKII.
7.    Connect all devices to power outlets, and power on the devices in proper order:
       • When starting a session, turn on (1) input sources, (2) Seventy-Two MKII, (3) output devices.
       • When ending a session, turn off (1) output devices, (2) Seventy-Two MKII, (3) input sources.
8.    Using a USB cable, connect the USB port on Seventy-Two MKII to your computer. Open Serato DJ
      Pro and go! For more information on how to use Serato DJ Pro with Seventy-Two MKII, visit
      support.serato.com and select Rane Seventy-Two MKII.

                            Computer                    Microphone




Rane Twelve                                                                                   Rane Twelve
(or other USB MIDI controller)                                                 (or other USB MIDI controller)




     Powered Loudspeakers              Booth Monitors                     Turntable          Media Player

                                                                                                           3
Features

Top Panel



         36        7    5                        5        7        31
                        6        3         4     6
         37        8                                      8
    38                  18                       18                32
    39             9                                      9
         34
                       19             1              19            33
    35         10                                         10
                        20                       20
         22    11       21                       21       11       25

         23                           16                           26
               12           17                  17        12
    24                                                                  27
    13                                                                  13

                                      2
                       14                            14


              15                 28        28                 15


                            29                  29



                                      30


4
1.    Touchscreen: This full-color multi-touch display shows information relevant to Seventy-Two
      MKII’s current operation. Touch the display and use the hardware controls to control the
      interface. See Operation > Touchscreen for more information.
2.    Shift: Press and hold this button to access secondary functions of other controls on Seventy-
      Two MKII.
3.    View/Menu: Press this button to toggle to Library View and Waveform views on the touchscreen.
      See Operation > Touchscreen for more information.
      Hold Shift and press this button, or press and hold this button for 4 seconds, to show
      Seventy-Two MKII’s Main Menu.
4.    Effects/Tap: Press this button to show the Effects View immediately.
      Hold Shift and press this button multiple times at the desired tempo to manually set the BPM rate
      for beat-tempo effects, per channel.
5.    Back: Press this button to view the previous screen. In Library View, press this button to move
      back through levels of library organization.
      Hold Shift and press this button to open the Prepare Area in Serato DJ Pro.
6.    Load/Scroll: Turn this knob to browse through lists and press it to select an item or load the currently
      selected track to the deck. When in Waveform View, touch this knob to switch to Library View in the
      touchscreen.
      Hold Shift and press this knob to load the currently selected track to the Prepare Area.
      Tip: Press this knob twice quickly to load the same track to both decks (“instant doubles”).
7.    Deck Source: Set this knob to the desired audio source from this channel: USB A or B (a track
      playing on that layer in the software), PH/CD (a device connected to the Deck PH/CD In on the
      rear panel), or Aux (a device connected to the Deck Aux In on the rear panel).
      Note: If you select PH/CD, set the PH/CD selector switches on the rear panel properly.
      Note: A deck’s controls will send MIDI information only when its deck source selector is set to
      USB A or B.
8.    Deck Level: Turn this knob to set the pre-fader, pre-EQ audio level of the corresponding
      channel. The meter next to this knob indicates the signal’s volume level (reduce it if it begins
      "clipping," reaching the red part of the meter).
9.    Deck EQ High: Turn this knob to adjust the high (treble) frequencies.
                                                                                    Note: All EQ controls
10.   Deck EQ Mid: Turn this knob to adjust the mid-range frequencies.
                                                                                    are full-kill.
11.   Deck EQ Low: Turn this knob to adjust the low (bass) frequencies.
12.   Deck LP/HP: Turn this knob to adjust the filter applied to the deck. Turn the knob
      counterclockwise to apply a low-pass filter. Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass filter.
      Set it to the center (“12:00”) position to deactivate the filters.
      Tip: The filters are full-kill by default, but you can adjust the cutoff frequencies by going to Main
      Menu > Mixer Settings > Filter Setup and changing the Low Pass Min and High Pass Max.
13.   Pad Mode Buttons: Press one of these buttons to enter the corresponding pad mode. Press
      once to enter the primary (printed above) mode, and press a second time to enter the
      secondary (printed below) mode. Press Shift and one of these buttons to access custom pad
      modes. See Operation > Pad Modes to learn how to use the pads in each mode.
14.   Performance Pads: These pads have different functions on each deck depending on the
      current pad mode. Use the Pad Mode Buttons to select the pad mode. These pads are
      velocity-sensitive (in certain modes only), durable, and easy to play. See Operation > Pad
      Modes to learn how to use the pads in each mode.
15.   Parameter /: Use these buttons for various functions in each pad mode. Press and hold
      Shift and use these buttons to access secondary parameters.
16.   Touch FX: Press this button to activate or deactivate the X-Y touch-pad feature on the
      touchscreen. You can use this feature to control various effect parameters. See Operation >
      Effects for more information.
                                                                                                            5
17.   Effects Toggle: Move this toggle switch away from you to activate the software effects and
      Seventy-Two MKII's Flex effects—the toggle will latch to that position. Pull the toggle back to
      the center position to deactivate the effects.
      Pull and hold this toggle toward you to activate the software effects and Seventy-Two MKII
      effects momentarily, and release the toggle to deactivate the effects—the toggle will return to
      the center position.
      Note: The Effect Toggle switches can be removed and rotated 180° depending on your
      preference.
18.   Parameter Knob: Turn these knobs to adjust various effect parameters. Parameter knob focus
      is indicated on the touchscreen with a white caret for each bank.
19.   FX 1–3: Press each of these buttons to activate or deactivate their corresponding software
      effect in a bank of three effects.
20.   Flex FX: Press this button to activate or deactivate Seventy-Two MKII’s internal effects.
21.   Depth: Turn this knob to adjust the “wet-dry” mix of the internal Flex FX on that deck.
22.   Sampler Level: Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the software sampler.
23.   Sampler LP/HP: Turn this knob to adjust the filter applied to the software sampler. Turn the
      knob counterclockwise to apply a low-pass filter. Turn the knob clockwise to apply a high-pass
      filter. Set it to the center (“12:00”) position for a “flat” response (no filter).
24.   Sampler Effects: Press this button to activate or deactivate effects for the software sampler.
      Note: Sampler must be selected in the Effects routing menu. See Effects for more details.
25.   Cue Level: Turn this knob to adjust the volume level of the cue channel.
26.   Cue Mix: Turn to mix between the cue channel and program mix in the headphone outputs.
      When all the way to the left, only the cue channel will be heard. When all the way to the right,
      only the program mix will be heard.
27.   Split Cue: When this button is lit in the On position, the headphone audio will be “split” such
      that the cue channel are summed to mono and sent to the left headphone channel while the
      program mix is summed to mono and sent to the right channel. When the button is dim in the
      Off position, the cue channel and program mix will be “blended” together. In both cases, use
      the Cue Mix knob to control the blend of the two signals.
28.   Deck Cue: Press this button to send this deck’s pre-fader signal to the cue channel for
      monitoring. When engaged, the button will be lit. To cue multiple channels simultaneously,
      press the Deck Cue buttons for both decks.
29.   Channel Fader: Move this fader to adjust the volume level of the corresponding deck.
30.   Crossfader: Move this fader to mix between the decks.
31.   Main: Turn this knob to adjust the output volume of the main outs. The meters next to this knob
      indicate the signal’s volume level (reduce it if it begins "clipping," reaching the red part of the
      meter).
32.   Booth: Turn this knob to adjust the output volume of the Booth Outs.
33.   Session Out: Turn this knob to adjust the output volume of the Session Outs.
34.   Session In: Turn this knob to adjust the input volume of the Session Ins.
35.   Session In Cue: Press this button to send the signal from the Session Ins to the cue channel
      for monitoring. When engaged, the button will be lit.
36.   Mic 1 Level: Turn this knob to adjust the gain of the Mic 1 Input. The meter next to this knob
      indicates the signal’s volume level (reduce it if it begins "clipping," reaching the red part of the
      meter).
37.   Mic 1 Tone: Turn this knob to adjust the balance of low (bass) and high (treble) frequencies of
      the audio signal coming from the Mic 1 Input.


6
38.   Mic 1 On/Duck: Press this to activate or deactivate the Mic 1 Input on the rear panel.
      Press and hold this button for 2 seconds to activate the “ducking” feature, which reduces the
      volume level of all other inputs by 10 dB. The button will flash when this feature is active. Press
      this button once more to deactivate this feature and the Mic 1 Input.
39.   Mic 1 Echo: Press this button to activate or deactivate the echo effect on the Mic 1 Input signal.
      Turn the Mic 1 Echo knob on the front panel to adjust the amount of the effect.


Rear Panel

                                                                8        8
                                14          13              9       9            11 12
                    2
                                                                                 11 12
                    1          3      3 4 6 5
                                                           10            7
1.    Power Input: While Seventy-Two MKII is powered off, connect the included power cable to this
      input and then to a power outlet.
2.    Power Switch: Use this switch to power Seventy-Two MKII on or off. Power on Seventy-Two
      MKII only after you have connected all of your input devices and before you power on your
      amplifiers and loudspeakers. Power off your amplifiers and loudspeakers before powering off
      Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    Main Out (XLR): Connect these outputs to loudspeakers or an amplifier system. Use the
      Master knob on the top panel to control the volume level.
4.    Booth Out (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Connect these outputs to booth monitors or a booth amplifier
      system. Use the Booth knob on the top panel to control the volume level.
5.    Session In (RCA): Connect these inputs from a line-level device like another mixer, a CD
      player, drum machine, etc. The signal will be sent directly to the program mix. Turn the Session
      In knob on the top panel to control the input volume level.
6.    Session Out (RCA): Connect these outputs to another mixer, recording device, etc. The
      program mix will be sent to these outputs. Turn the Session Out knob on the top panel to
      control the volume level.
7.    Deck PH/CD In (RCA): Connect these inputs to an external audio source or to a turntable, CD
      player, or other line-level device. Remember to set the corresponding PH/CD selector to the
      appropriate position and to set the deck source knob for that deck to PH/CD to play its audio
      signal on that deck.
8.    PH/CD Selector: Set this switch to the appropriate position, depending on the device connected
      to the PH/CD Ins of the corresponding deck. If you are using phono-level turntables, set this
      switch to PH to provide the additional amplification needed for phono-level signals. If you are
      using a line-level device, such as a line-level turntable, CD player or sampler, set this switch to
      CD.
9.    Phono Grounds: If you are using phono-level turntables with a grounding wire, connect the
      grounding wire to these terminals. If you experience a low “hum” or “buzz”, this could mean
      that your turntables are not grounded.
      Note: Some turntables have a grounding wire built into the RCA connection and, therefore,
      nothing needs to be connected to the grounding terminal.
10.   Deck Aux In (RCA): Connect these inputs to an external line-level audio source. Remember to
      set the Deck Source knob for that deck to Aux to play its audio signal on that deck.

                                                                                                       7
11.   Mic Inputs 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6.35 mm, TS): Connect microphones or line-level devices to these
      mono inputs. Their mono audio signals are split and routed directly to the stereo program mix
      and cue channel. If you prefer a stereo line input, the Session In may be used.
12.   Line/Mic Selector: Set this switch to the appropriate position, depending on the device
      connected to Mic Inputs 1–2. If you are using a microphone, set this switch to Mic. If you are
      using a line-level device, such as a keyboard or sampler, set this switch to Line.
13.   Twelve/Controller USB Ports (USB Type-A): Use USB cables to connect these USB ports to
      your controllers such as Twelve or a standard USB MIDI controller.
      Important: Do not connect USB drives to these ports. Switching the Deck Source knob will
      force eject the drive from the connected computer, which could damage the contents and
      should be avoided.
14.   USB Ports (USB Type-B): Use USB cables to connect these USB ports to available USB ports
      on your computer. These connections send and receive audio and MIDI control information to
      and from the computer.
      Note: Make sure you have downloaded and installed the Rane Control Panel from
      dj.rane.com.


Front Panel


                                           7         6
                                                                       9
                     2        3                                                 1
                     5        4
                                                                      10
                                                     8
1.    Headphone Outputs (1/4”, 1/8” / 6.35 mm, 3.5 mm, TRS): Connect your 1/4” or 1/8” (6.35 mm
      or 3.5 mm) headphones to this output for cueing and mix monitoring.
2.    Mic 2 On: When set to On, the Mic 2 Input on the rear panel is active, and its audio signal is
      routed directly to the program mix and cue mix. When set to Off, the Mic 2 Input is disabled.
3.    Mic 2 Level: Turn this knob to adjust the gain of the Mic 2 Input.
4.    Mic 2 Tone: Turn this knob to adjust the balance of low (bass) and high (treble) frequencies of
      the audio signal coming from the Mic 2 Input.
5.    Mic 1 Echo: Turn this knob to adjust the amount of the echo effect on the Mic 1 Input signal.
      Press the Mic 1 Echo button on the top panel to activate or deactivate this effect.
6.    Tension Knob: Use this knob to adjust the tension of the Crossfader. Turn the knob to the left to
      loosen the crossfader for a lighter feel and to the right to tighten the crossfader for a heavier feel.
7.    Contour Controls: Adjusts the slope of the crossfader curve. Turn the knob to the left for a
      smooth fade (mixing) or to the right for a sharp cut (scratching). The center position is a typical
      setting for club performances.
8.    Fader Reverse: Set this switch to On to reverse the direction (“polarity”) of the corresponding
      fader. Set it to Off to use the conventional fader polarity.
9.    Deck Swap: Set this switch to On position to swap the left and right Channel Faders as
      controlled by Seventy-Two MKII. Set it to Off to use the conventional deck configuration.
10.   Footswitch Input (1/4”/6.35 mm, TRS): Connect a footswitch here, which you can use to
      activate or deactivate effects. You can assign this to other functions, as well. This input
      supports a three-switch footswitch with passive-contact closure.



8
Operation
Touchscreen
To toggle between Waveform and Library views, press the View/Menu button.


Waveform View
In Waveform view, track waveforms are displayed vertically, with
Channel 1 on the left side and Channel 2 on the right side. The large                   1
waveform represents a section of the current track. The smaller            2
waveform represents the entire current track.
1.   Time: Displays the time remaining of the current track.               3
2.   Key/Key Lock: Hold Shift and tap this icon to toggle between
     the Key and Key Lock views. When Key is selected, the key of
     the current track will be displayed, and you can tap to enable or     4
     disable Key Sync. When Key Lock is selected, a Key Lock icon
     (or Serato Pitch 'n Time icon, if installed) will be displayed, and
     you can tap to enable or disable Key Lock. When any option is
     enabled, the field will be highlighted.                               5
3.   Overview: The smaller waveform represents an overview of the
     entire current track. You can use your finger to "scrub" through
     the track while it is playing. Also, you can pinch two fingers to
     zoom in on the bigger waveform and spread two fingers to zoom         6
     out.                                                                                7
     Note: If the Disable Needle Search option in Serato DJ Pro has
     been enabled, you will need to hold Shift to scrub through the
     track.
4.   Song Position: Playhead position of the current track.
5.   Hot Cues: Displays hot cues by color.
6.   Sync: When Sync is enabled, the field will be highlighted and the
     BPM indicators will color blue. To enable or disable Sync, hold
     Shift and tap the icon for either channel.
7.   BPM: Beats Per Minute of the current track.
Note: If Load/Scroll Touch is on and you are in Waveform View, touching the Load/Scroll knob will
quickly bring up Library View. See Main Menu to learn how to turn this option on or off.


Library View                                                                Touchscreen with
                                                                           Library Simple View
In Library View, the display shows the Serato library of the
connected computer. If Seventy-Two MKII is connected to two
computers, the one to which both decks were last assigned will
be shown.
To change view modes, swipe down on the pull-down menu
icon at the top of a tracklist view, then tap the icon for the desired
mode—Simple View or Expanded View.
To browse tracks, turn the Load/Scroll knob.
To quickly scroll, press Shift and turn the Load/Scroll knob.
To open a crate or load a track to a deck, press the
Load/Scroll knob.
To move back a level, press Back, or press the back arrow
located in the top-left region of the touchscreen.

                                                                                                 9
Main Menu

To access the main menu, press Shift and View/Menu, or press and hold View/Menu for 4
seconds. The Main Menu contains the following options.


Mixer Settings: Select this option to edit the following settings:

 •   Audio Out: Select this option to edit the Main Out, Mic 1 Clean Feed, and Deck Balance
     settings.
     Note: When Clean Feed is On, the Mic 1 will not pass audio when recording in Serato DJ Pro.

 •   Deck Settings: Select this option to edit the Phono 1/2 Sensitivity, Tone XOver 1/2, and
     Deck 1/2 Pan settings.
     Note: Set Phono Sensitivity to the settings recommended by your cartridge's manufacturer.

 •   Filter Setup: Select this option to edit the Deck 1/2 Resonance, the Sampler Resonance, the
     cutoff frequency for the LOW position of the filter knobs (Low Pass Min), or the cutoff
     frequency for the HI position of the filter knobs (High Pass Max).

 •   Pad Setup: Select this option to edit the Pad Sensitivity settings.

 •   Headphone Setup: Select this option to edit the headphone Tone setting.

 •   Mic 1 Setup: Select this option to edit the amount of feedback for the mic echo (Mic 1 Echo
     Fdbk), the mic ducking threshold (Mic 1 Duck Thresh), or the ducking hold time (Mic 1 Duck
     Hold).

 •   Touch FX Setup: Select this option to edit Button Mode, which determines the function of the
     Touch FX button. In Touch FX Mode, which is the default, tapping the button will open the
     Touch FX screen. The button LED will be lit solid green at all times. It will be bright when the
     Touch FX screen is open and dim when it is not open. In Tap Mode, tapping the button will set
     the FX tempo for the deck in focus, and holding Shift while pressing the button will open the
     Touch FX screen. The button LED will be unlit except when pressed.


Flex FX: Select this option to view and edit the internal Flex FX settings.

 •   Beats Mult.: Select this option to determine the increments by which Flex FX timings can be
     adjusted.

     o   In Extended Mode, you can set Flex FX to standard timings ranging from 1/32 to 32 beats
         as well as dotted and triplet variants of each of these timings.

     o   In Simple Mode, which is the default, you can set Flex FX beats only to standard timings
         (no triplet or dotted timings).

     o   In No Dotted Mode, the Flex FX beats include standard timings and triplets but no dotted
         timings.
     o   In No Triplet Mode, the Flex FX beats include standard and dotted timings but no triplets.

 •   FX List: You can edit any effect listed below the Beats Mult. option.
     o   To add or remove an effect from the list of favorites, tap the circle on the right side of the
         display. When the circle is green, the effect will be included in the list of Flex FX in Effects
         View. When the circle is empty and effect name is grayed out, the effect will no longer
         appear in the list.
     o   To adjust the default settings of the internal Flex FX, tap the wrench icon. Any changes made
         will be saved to the mixer.

10
Cut-In Adjust: Select this option to enter the Cut-In Adjust
setup menu. This controls the amount of dead space between
a fader's closed and open positions. Select the fader you
would like to adjust, then move the selected fader to the
desired position and press Set to store the setting.




Footswitch: Select this option to set the assignments for Footswitch 1/2/3.

 •   If assigned to MIDI, tapping a footswitch executes a MIDI function programmed in your Serato
     software.

 •   If assigned to FX 1 Latch or FX 2 Latch, tapping a footswitch latches an effect for Deck 1 or 2.

 •   If assigned to FX 1 Moment or FX 2 Moment, pressing a foot pedal momentarily triggers
     effects for Deck 1 or 2.

 •   If assigned to Tap, tapping a footswitch sets the FX tempo for the deck currently in focus on
     the Touchscreen.


Display: Select this option to view and edit settings for the Touchscreen display.

 •   Screen Brightness: Select this option to adjust the brightness of the display.

 •   Scroll Touch: Select this option to determine whether touching the Load/Scroll knob will
     redirect you to Library View from Waveform View.

 •   Pad Mode Display: Select this option to determine whether Performance Pad functions are
     displayed on the Touchscreen when a Pad Mode button is pressed.

 •   Startup View: Select this option to choose the default view when powering on the Seventy-
     Two MKII (Waveform, Library, or Effects).
     Note: Connection to Serato is required to power on in Waveform or Library View. If not
     connected to Serato, the Seventy-Two MKII will power on in Effects View.


Restoring Default Settings

To restore the original settings for a specific menu field, first choose any of the options in the
Main Menu. The last item in each menu field will be Restore Defaults. Select this item, and a popup
message will appear. Select Restore to return to the original settings or Cancel to go back.


To restore the Seventy-Two MKII to its original settings for all menu fields at once, first go to
the Main Menu. Then swipe up on the Touchscreen, and a list item titled Factory Reset will appear.
Select this item, and a popup message will appear. Choose Restore to return all settings to their
defaults or choose Cancel to go back.




                                                                                                    11
Effects

Effects View

Press the Effects/Tap button to enter Effects View, where you can edit the effects for both FX
banks (A and B) and control which effects are activated on each deck.

Each bank of effects contains up to 3 software effects,
plus the internal Flex FX, for a total of up to 8 effects that
can be added and routed to Deck 1, Deck 2, and the
Sampler. By default, effects are routed to Deck 1 and
Deck 2.


To change the effect routing:
1.   Tap the blue 1/2/S icons at the top of the display to
     enter the Routing menu.
2.   Select where you would like to route the effects,
     then press OK to return to the previous page. Both
     banks of effects can be routed to the same deck(s).


To add and use effects:
1.   Press the Effects button to enter Effects View.
2.   Tap the Touchscreen to select the desired effect, and
     press the Parameter Knob to switch to FX select
     mode.
3.   Turn the Parameter Knob to cycle through the list
     of effects, and press it to load the effect to that slot.
4.   Push the FX 1–3 or Flex FX buttons to activate the effect in the chain. Effects are applied in
     sequence in the chain (FX1 > FX2 > FX3 > Flex FX).
5.   Use the Effects Toggles to apply the effects to Deck 1 and 2. Push the Toggle away from you
     to latch an effect, or pull and hold the Toggle toward you to momentarily trigger an effect.
     Press the Sampler Effects button to apply the effects to the sampler.


To edit a software effect:
1.   Tap the effect on the display.
2.   Turn the Parameter Knob to begin editing the selected parameter. Pressing the Parameter
     Knob will switch to software FX select mode for the effect in focus.


To edit internal Flex FX:
1.   Tap to bring Parameter Knob focus to the desired effect, then use the Parameter Knob to
     adjust. Double-tap the desired effect to adjust the default Flex FX settings. Any changes made
     will be saved to the mixer.
2.   To edit effect timing, tap on the Time parameter and turn the Parameter Knob.
     Note: Time adjustments are per bank. For the Beat Breaker and Reverb Flex FX, the
     adjustable parameter is not time but pattern number and decay percentage respectively.

     Tip: After selecting the Beat Breaker pattern number, hold Shift and press the Parameter
     Knob to edit the pattern. Edit by turning and pressing the Parameter Knob to raise or lower
     blocks in the pattern. To exit editing mode, press Shift and the Parameter Knob again. Note
     that only patterns 11-16 will be saved to the mixer upon powering off.

12
Touch FX

Press the Touch FX button to open the Touch FX screen, where you can simply touch the display to
activate and manipulate the effects on Deck 1 or 2.


To select which deck the Touch FX is applied to, tap the respective Deck arrow. The FX buttons
for the effects routed to that deck will be highlighted.


To activate and manipulate effects routed to the deck, slide your finger across the display.
Sliding on the Y-axis applies a high pass (up) or low pass (down) Filter. Sliding on the X-axis
changes the Time parameter for any active Flex FX. The Time parameter for the Flex FX will be
displayed at the bottom of the Touch FX screen and will update as you slide left/right on the X-axis.
Upon releasing your finger from the Touchscreen, the filter will be deactivated and the FX timing will
return to its previous setting. You can change the default Time parameter from the Touch FX screen
by tapping it and turning the Parameter Knob.
Note: For the Beat Breaker and Reverb Flex FX, the displayed parameter is not time but pattern
number and decay percentage respectively.

Note: Beat Breaker editing can be entered from the Touch FX screen by tapping the pattern number
and then pressing Shift and the Parameter Knob. See Effects > Effects View above to learn
more.


To change the Flex effect activated on the deck, tap the name of the effect, press Parameter
Knob to enter FX select mode, and then turn the Parameter Knob to cycle through effects. Press
the Parameter Knob again to exit FX select mode.




                                                                                                   13
Pad Modes

This chapter describes the different pad modes. Each
deck has eight pads, which are always in one of these
modes, and each deck’s pads can be in a different
mode. Press one of the Pad Mode buttons to enter the                 1     2       3        4
corresponding pad mode on that deck. Each pad mode
button will alternate between two modes with each
press.                                                               5     6       7        8
Tip: In each pad mode, press Shift and one of the Pad
Mode buttons to access additional modes or use
custom modes.




With Pad Mode Display on, pressing a Pad Mode button will display the
function of each Performance Pad when operating within the selected
mode. This display will appear at the bottom of the Touchscreen, if you
are in Waveform View, Effects View, or the Touch FX screen. Tap
anywhere in this display to retain it on the Touchscreen, or it will
disappear after 5 seconds. See Main Menu to learn how to turn this
feature on or off.




Cue
In Cue Mode, each pad assigns a hot cue point or returns the track to that hot cue point.

To enter Cue Mode, press Cue / Pitch Play so that it lights white.
To assign a hot cue point, press an unlit Pad at the desired point in your track. The pad will light
up when it is assigned (with the corresponding color, if available).

To jump to a hot cue point, press a lit Pad.
To delete an assigned hot cue point, press Shift and the corresponding pad.




14
Pitch Play                                                                   Up

In Pitch Play Mode, each pad plays the track from a
                                                          +4        +5        +6        +7
hot cue point at a different transposition (adjustable semitones semitones semitones semitones
by semitones). The Serato Pitch ‘n Time DJ
Expansion Pack must be installed to use this mode.
See Cue to learn how to assign hot cue points.             0
                                                                        +1          +2        +3
Note: A Serato Pitch 'n Time download card with serial    (original
                                                                      semitone   semitones semitones
number is included with your Seventy-Two MKII.             pitch)

To enter Pitch Play Mode, press Cue / Pitch Play
so that it lights green.                                                   Middle

To select which hot cue point to use, press Shift            0
                                                                        +1          +2        +3
and a dimly lit Pad.                                      (original
                                                                      semitone   semitones semitones
                                                           pitch)
To select the range of transpositions the pads will
use, use the Parameter / buttons (see the
diagrams here).                                             -4           -3        -2           -1
                                                         semitones    semitones semitones    semitone
To adjust the key of the current track down or up,
press Shift and the Parameter / buttons,
respectively.                                                               Down
To play the track from the hot cue point, press a lit
                                                                                                  0
Pad. Each pad corresponds to a specific transposition  -3      -2                    -1
                                                                                              (original
(by semitones), depending on the current range of semitones semitones             semitone
                                                                                               pitch)
transposition (see the diagrams here). The pad with no
transposition (the original pitch) will be lit white.
                                                            -7           -6        -5           -4
                                                         semitones    semitones semitones    semitones




Auto Loop
In Auto Loop Mode, each pad triggers or releases an auto-loop of a different length. The software’s
loop grid determines the size of the loop.

To enter Auto Loop Mode, press Auto Loop / Man Loop so that it lights dark blue.
To change which eight lengths for auto loops are shown (in the software), press either of the
Parameter / buttons. The pad layout will shift to match it.
To shift the Auto Loop backward or forward, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons,
respectively.




                                                                                                      15
Manual Loop
Manual Loop Mode enables you to return the track to 1              2            3            4
a loop you created and saved earlier. The pad layouts
for the two banks are identical.                      Loop 1           Loop 2       Loop 3       Loop 4

To enter Manual Loop Mode, press Auto Loop /
Man Loop so that it lights green.            5                     6            7            8
                                                          Set        Set            Loop
To create a loop, press Pad 5 to set the Loop In                                                 Reloop
                                                        Loop In    Loop Out         On/Off
point and then press Pad 6 to set the Loop Out point
and activate the loop.

To save a loop, while a loop is active, press an unlit pad in the top row (Pads 1–4). You can do this
regardless of how the loop was created (Auto Loop Mode, Manual Loop Mode, etc.).

To activate or deactivate a saved loop, press a lit pad in the top row (Pads 1–4).
To delete a saved loop, press Shift and a lit pad in the top row (Pads 1–4).
To activate or deactivate the last-activated loop, press Pad 7.
To immediately reactivate the last-activated loop (“reloop”), press Pad 8.

To halve or double the length of a loop, press the Parameter / buttons, respectively.
To shift a loop backward or forward, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons, respectively.


Manual Loop 2

To enter Manual Loop 2 Mode, hold Shift and press Auto Loop / Man Loop (2) so that it lights
yellow. In this mode, Pads 1–4 are used to activate or deactivate Loops 5–8 respectively.


Roll
In Roll Mode, each pad triggers a momentary loop roll. Releasing the pad stops the loop roll and
resumes normal playback where the playhead would be if you had not triggered the loop roll (i.e., as
if the track had been playing forward the whole time).
Note: Disable Show Beat Jump Controls in the Serato Setup menu to access 8 loop rolls at once.
You can also view and edit the set loop sizes in the software.
To enter Roll Mode, press Roll / Pad FX so that it lights aqua.

To trigger a loop roll, press and hold a Pad.
To change which eight lengths for loop rolls are shown (in the software), press either of the
Parameter / buttons. The pad layout will shift to match it.
To shift the loop roll backward or forward, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons,
respectively.




16
Pad FX

In Pad FX Mode, the pads select and activate effects.     1           2            3            4
The top row of pads selects the type of effect, and           Vinyl
                                                                      Backspin         Gate         Echo
the bottom row triggers and controls the length of the        Brake
effect.
To enter Pad FX mode, press Roll / Pad FX so that         5           6            7            8
it lights yellow.                                         Size 1          Size 2       Size 3       Size 4
To select the Vinyl Brake effect, press Pad 1. When
the Vinyl Brake effect is triggered by the bottom row
pads, the audio slows as if a phono platter has
stopped, fading out to silence after the time selected.

To select the Backspin effect, press Pad 2. When the Backspin effect is triggered by one of the
bottom row pads, the audio plays backwards and speeds up as if a phono platter is spun
backwards, fading out to silence after the time selected.

To select the Gate effect, press Pad 3. When the Gate effect is triggered by one of the bottom row
pads, a time-based gate is applied to the audio based on the selected size.
To select the Echo effect, press Pad 4. When the Echo effect is triggered by the bottom row pads,
the audio will echo to silence based on the size selected.
Note: The Echo effect can be combined with other effects. All other effects are exclusive.
To trigger the selected effect, press one of Pads 5–8. Each pad activates the effect immediately
with a set size, increasing from Pad 5 (shortest time) to Pad 8 (longest time). When an effect is
triggered, the selected pad will blink.
Note: Selecting a new pad mode will disable all currently active Pad FX on that deck.


Sampler

In Sampler Mode, the pads will control the sampler in the software. The pads each trigger a sample
at a specified volume (you can assign the sample and its volume in the software).

To enter Sampler Mode, press Sampler / Fader FX so that it lights purple.
To assign a sample, first highlight the desired sample in your library. Then hold Shift and press a
pad corresponding to an empty sampler slot. The sampler slot volume can be adjusted in Serato.

To play a sample, press a lit pad. The pad will flash as the sample plays.
To stop playback of a sample, press Shift and a Pad while it plays.
To cycle through the sample banks, press the Parameter / buttons.
To cycle through the Sampler outputs, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons.




                                                                                                             17
Fader FX

In Fader FX Mode, the pads will mute and unmute the 1             2             3             4
deck’s audio signal in a way that emulates crossfader 1-Click         2-Click       3-Click       4-Click
movements toward that deck. A “click” is a                Flare        Flare         Flare         Flare
movement of the crossfader toward a deck (“open”)
and then away from that deck (“closed”). DJs use
clicks in different rhythmic patterns (often in 5                 6
                                                                    2-to-1
                                                                                7             8
conjunction with scratching) to create various effects.  Trans-
                                                                  Alternator    Tri-forms          Uzi
                                                        formers
Note: Fader FX are based on the current track's                      Baby
BPM. Since some scratch sound files may not
accurately display the BPM, set the BPM manually
for the desired sound.

To enter Fader FX Mode, press Sampler / Fader FX so that it lights green.
To trigger a fader effect, press one of Pads 1–8.
To reverse an effect, hold Shift and press one of Pads 1–8.


Flip

If you have purchased the Serato Flip Expansion
Pack, you can access the Flip control by holding
Shift and pressing Sampler / Fader FX (4). If you     Flip 1        Flip 2        Flip 3        Flip 4
have not purchased the Flip Expansion Pack, this will
be available as a Custom Pad mode.

In this mode, unlit pads have no Flip assigned to                                 No            No
them; pads lit blue have a Flip assigned but are not    Flip 5        Flip 6
                                                                                Function      Function
playing; pads lit orange have a Flip assigned and are
currently playing.

To assign a Flip to a pad, press an unlit pad (1-6).
To play an assigned Flip, press the corresponding blue lit pad (1-6).
To immediately stop playback of a Flip, hold Shift and then press the corresponding orange lit
pad (1-6).
To start Flip recording, press the left Parameter  button.

To return to the start of the selected Flip, press the right Parameter  button.
To toggle the Flip Slot Loop, hold Shift and then press the left Parameter  button.
To toggle the Flip Slot on and off, hold Shift and then press the right Parameter  button.




18
Slicer

Important: Your track must have a set beatgrid for this mode to work.
In Slicer Mode, the eight pads represent eight
sequential beats—“slices”—in the beatgrid. The
currently playing slice is represented by the currently     Slice 1   Slice 2         Slice 3       Slice 4
lit pad; the light will “move through the pads” as it
progresses through each eight-slice phrase. You can
press a pad to play that slice. When you release the
pad, the track will resume normal playback from             Slice 5   Slice 6         Slice 7       Slice 8
where it would have been if you had never pressed it
(i.e., as if the track had been playing forward the
whole time).
To enter Slicer Mode, press Slicer / Transport so
that it lights red. The deck will exit Slicer Mode if you
load another track to the deck or enable Grid Edit
Mode.

To play a slice, press the corresponding Pad.
To decrease or increase the quantize size, press the Parameter / buttons.
To decrease or increase the size of the slices, press Shift and the Parameter / buttons.



Transport

In Transport Control Mode, the pads correspond to 1                   2           3             4
different transport controls. The software will        Pitch              Pitch       Pitch         Pitch
automatically enter Internal Mode when you do this (if Bend               Bend        Fader         Fader
you are using a Twelve controller with Seventy-Two       -                  +           -             +
MKII, the software will always be in Internal Mode).
                                                            5         6           7             8
To enter Transport Mode, press Slicer / Transport           Keylock
so that it lights green.                                                  Sync         Cue           
                                                            INT/REL
To bend the pitch downward temporarily, press
Pad 1.
To bend the pitch upward temporarily, press Pad 2.
To move the pitch fader down, press Pad 3.
To move the pitch fader up, press Pad 4.
To enable or disable Keylock, press Pad 5.
To switch between Internal Mode (INT) and Relative Mode (REL), press Shift and Pad 5.
(Switching to Relative Mode will allow you to resume control of playback with control vinyl or control
CDs.)
To activate Sync, press Pad 6. Press Shift and Pad 6 to deactivate sync.
To skip to the cue point, press Pad 7.
To play or pause the track, press Pad 8.




                                                                                                              19
Slicer Loop

Hold Shift and press Slicer / Transport (5) to enter Slicer Loop mode. The pads behave
identically to the pads in Slicer Mode, except the eight-Slice phrase will loop rather than moving
forward continuously through the track.


Custom Pad Sets

In addition to the standard pad modes, you can create up to 3 customized Pad Sets using Serato DJ
Pro's MIDI mapping feature.

To create a custom pad set:
1.   Hold Shift and press Cue / Pitch Play (1), Roll / Pad FX (3), or Sampler / Fader FX (4).
     Note: If you have purchased the Serato Flip expansion pack, holding Shift and pressing
     Sampler / Fader FX (4) will access the Flip Controls, not a custom pad set.
2.   In Serato DJ Pro, open the Setup menu and select MIDI.
3.   Select Seventy-Two MKII and make sure that Allow Serato DJ Hardware Remapping is
     enabled. Close the Setup window.
4.   In the main Serato DJ Pro window, click the MIDI button at the top of the screen to begin
     mapping.
5.   Click a feature in Serato DJ Pro, then touch or move a control on your hardware to map the
     feature to that control.
See the Serato DJ Pro manual for more information on MIDI mapping.




20
Faders

Seventy-Two MKII's Channel Faders are contactless MAG FOUR faders with adjustable tension.

To adjust the tension on Seventy-Two MKII's                    Top Panel Fader Plate
Channel faders:
1.   Make sure the unit is powered              off   and
     disconnected from a power source.
2.   Using a screwdriver, remove the screws from
     faceplate at bottom of the top panel where the
     faders are located (see image).
     Note: The fader caps must be removed to
     remove the faceplate.
3.   Using a screwdriver, adjust the tension screw for
     each fader to your preference.                          MAG FOUR Fader Top View




                                                                  Tension Screw

Control Panel

The Rane Control Panel allows you to adjust settings
on your Seventy-Two MKII mixer and save and load
these settings to a file (.r72) on your computer. Using
settings files lets you maintain several different control
configurations to use in different situations.

To manage settings files, navigate to the Settings
section of the Rane Control Panel, under the General
tab.
 •   Load: Select this to locate and load a Seventy-
     Two MKII settings file (.r72) on your computer to
     the Control Panel.
 •   Save: Select this to save the mixer's settings to
     your computer as a Seventy-Two MKII settings
     file (.r72).


You can also use the Rane Control Panel to calibrate
the faders on your Seventy-Two MKII:
1. Make sure your Seventy-Two MKII is powered on
   and connected to an available port on your
   computer using a USB cable.
2. Open the Rane Control Panel.
3. Go to File > Fader Calibration.
4. Follow the instructions on screen to select the
   desired fader and calibrate it. You will be
   prompted once the calibration is successful.


                                                                                             21
Guía del usuario (Español)
Introducción
Gracias por comprar el Seventy-Two MKII. En Rane DJ, sabemos que usted se toma la
música en serio. Por eso es que diseñamos nuestros equipos con una sola cosa en mente—
hacer que pueda tocar su mejor interpretación.



Contenido de la caja

Seventy-Two MKII
Cable del suministro eléctrico
(2) Discos de vinilo de control Serato NoiseMap™
(2) CD de control Serato NoiseMap™
Tarjeta de descarga Serato Pitch 'n Time con número de serie
(2) Cables USB
Pegatinas de Rane
Tarjeta de descarga de software
Guía del usuario
Manual sobre la seguridad y garantía



Soporte

Para obtener la información más reciente acerca de este producto (documentación,
especificaciones técnicas, requisitos de sistema, información de compatibilidad, etc.) y
registrarlo, visite dj.rane.com.
Para obtener soporte adicional del producto, visite dj.rane.com/support.




22
Instalación
Los elementos que no se enumeran en Introducción > Contenido de la caja se venden por separado.
1.    Visite dj.rane.com e inicie sesión con su cuenta. (Cree una cuenta si este es su primer producto
      Rane). En su cuenta, registre su Seventy-Two MKII y descargue el Rane Control Panel.
      Usuarios de Windows únicamente: El panel de control de Rane contiene los controladores
      requeridos para Windows.
2.    IMPORTANTE: Ocasionalmente, puede que actualicemos el firmware del Seventy-Two MKII para
      mejorar su funcionamiento. Visite dj.rane.com para encontrar las actualizaciones de firmware
      disponibles, especialmente luego de actualizar su software (las actualizaciones de firmware pueden
      contemplar las nuevas características del software).
3.    Descargue e instale la versión más reciente de Serato DJ Pro desde serato.com.
4.    Con unos cables USB, conecte los puertos USB del Rane Twelve (si lo está utilizando) u otros
      controladores MIDI USB a los puertos USB del Twelve/Controller del Seventy-Two MKII.
5.    Conecte las fuentes de entrada de audio (micrófonos, giradiscos, etc.) al Seventy-Two MKII.
6.    Conecte los dispositivos de salida de audio (auriculares, amplificadores de potencia, altavoces, etc.)
      al Seventy-Two MKII.
7.    Enchufe todos los dispositivos en sus tomas de corriente y enciéndalos en el orden correcto:
       • Para iniciar la sesión, encienda (1) las fuentes de entrada, (2) el Seventy-Two MKII y (3) los
             dispositivos de salida.
       • Al terminar la sesión, apague (1) los dispositivos de salida, (2) el Seventy-Two MKII y (3) las
             fuentes de entrada.
8.    Utilice un cable USB para conectar el puerto USB del Seventy-Two MKII a su ordenador. ¡Abra Serato
      DJ Pro y a tocar! Para obtener más información sobre cómo utilizar Serato DJ Pro con el Seventy-Two
      MKII, visite support.serato.com y seleccione Rane Seventy-Two MKII.

                                Computadora                   Micrófono




Rane Twelve                                                                                     Rane Twelve
(u otro controlador MIDI USB)                                                     (u otro controlador MIDI USB)




         Altavoces activos              Monitores de cabina                Giradiscos         Reproductor
                                                                                               de medios
                                                                                                           23
Características

Panel superior



      36         7    5                        5        7        31
                      6        3         4     6
      37         8                                      8
 38                   18                       18                32
 39              9                                      9
      34
                     19             1              19            33
 35          10                                         10
                      20                       20
      22     11       21                       21       11       25

      23                            16                           26
             12           17                  17        12
 24                                                                   27
 13                                                                   13

                                    2
                     14                            14


           15                  28        28                 15


                          29                  29



                                    30


24
1.    Pantalla táctil: Esta pantalla multitáctil a todo color muestra información relevante para la operación
      actual del Seventy-Two MKII. Toque la pantalla y utilice los controles de hardware para controlar la
      interfaz. Para más información, consulte Funcionamiento > Pantalla táctil.
2.    Shift: Mantenga pulsado este botón para acceder a las funciones secundarias de otros controles del
      Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    View/Menu: Pulse este botón para alternar entre las vistas de biblioteca y las vistas de formas de
      onda de la pantalla táctil. Para más información, consulte Funcionamiento > Pantalla táctil.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón o mantenga pulsado este botón durante 4 segundos,
      para mostrar el menú principal del Seventy-Two MKII.
4.    Effects/Tap: Pulse este botón para mostrar la vista de efectos de forma inmediata.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón varias veces con el tempo deseado para ajustar
      manualmente la frecuencia BPM de los efectos pulso-tempo, para cada canal.
5.    Back: Pulse este botón para ver la pantalla anterior. En la vista de biblioteca, pulse este botón para
      moverse hacia atrás a través de los niveles de la organización de biblioteca.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse este botón para abrir el área de preparación de Serato DJ Pro.
6.    Load/Scroll: Gire esta perilla para navegar por las listas y púlsela para seleccionar un elemento o
      cargar en la bandeja la pista actualmente seleccionada. En la vista de formas de onda, toque este
      botón para cambiar a la vista de biblioteca de la pantalla táctil.
      Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse esta perilla para cargar la pista actualmente seleccionada en el área
      de preparación.
      Consejo: Pulse esta perilla dos veces rápidamente para cargar la misma pista en ambas bandejas
      ("dobles instantáneos").
7.    Fuente de la bandeja: Ajuste esta perilla a la fuente de audio deseada desde este canal: USB A o B
      (una pista que se reproduce en esa capa del software), PH/CD (un dispositivo conectado a la entrada
      PH/CD del panel trasero de la bandeja), o Aux (un dispositivo conectado a la entrada Aux del panel
      de entrada de la bandeja).
      Nota: Si selecciona PH/CD, ajuste los interruptores de selección PH/CD del panel trasero
      correctamente.
      Nota: Los controles de una bandeja solo envían la información MIDI cuando el selector de fuente de
      la bandeja está ajustado a USB A o B.
8.    Level de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el nivel de audio del pre-fader y pre-ecualizador del
      canal correspondiente. El medidor junto a esta perilla indica el nivel de volumen de la señal (redúzcalo
      si comienza a "recortarse" y llega a la parte roja del medidor).
9.    Ecualizador High de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las          Nota: Todos los controles
      frecuencias altas (agudos).                                                 del ecualizador son de tipo
10.   Ecualizador Mid de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las           full-kill.
      frecuencias medias.
11.   Ecualizador Low de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar las frecuencias bajas (graves).
12.   LP/HP de la bandeja: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el filtro aplicado a la bandeja. Gire la perilla en
      sentido antihorario para aplicar un filtro pasabajos. Gire esta perilla en sentido horario para aplicar un
      filtro pasaaltos. Ajuste la perilla a la posición central (“12:00”) para desactivar los filtros.
      Consejo: Los filtros son de atenuación completa ("full-kill"), pero puede ajustar las frecuencias de
      corte accediendo a Main Menu > Mixer Settings > Filter Setup (Menú principal > Ajustes del
      mezclador > Configuración del filtro) y modificando Low Pass Min y High Pass Max.
13.   Botones de modo de pad: Pulse uno de estos botones para entrar al modo de pad correspondiente.
      Pulse una vez para entrar al modo primario (impreso más arriba) y pulse nuevamente para entrar al
      modo secundario (impreso a continuación). Pulse Shift y uno de estos botones para acceder a los
      modos de pads personalizados. Consulte Funcionamiento > Modos de pads para aprender a usar
      los pads en cada modo.
14.   Pads para actuaciones en vivo: Estos pads tienen distintas funciones en cada bandeja en función
      del modo de pad activo. Utilice los botones de modo de pad para seleccionar el modo de pad. Estos
      pads son sensibles a la velocidad (en ciertos modos solamente), duraderos y fáciles de tocar.
      Consulte Funcionamiento > Modos de pads para aprender a usar los pads en cada modo.
15.   Parameter /: Utilice estos botones para las diversas funciones en cada modo de pad. Mantenga
      pulsado Shift y utilice estos botones para acceder a los parámetros secundarios.

                                                                                                             25
16.   Touch FX: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar la característica X-Y del panel táctil en la
      pantalla táctil. Puede utilizar esta característica para controlar distintos parámetros de efectos. Para
      más información, consulte Funcionamiento > Efectos.
17.   Conmutador Effects: Mueva este interruptor de conmutación alejándolo de usted para activar los
      efectos de software y los efectos Flex del Seventy-Two MKII—el conmutador se bloqueará en esa
      posición. Tire del conmutador hacia la posición central para desactivar los efectos.
      Tire y sostenga el conmutador en dirección a usted para activar los efectos de software y los efectos
      del Seventy-Two MKII momentáneamente, y suelte el interruptor de conmutación para desactivar los
      efectos—el interruptor regresará a la posición central.
      Nota: Los interruptores de conmutación de efectos pueden quitarse y girarse 180° según sus
      preferencias.
18.   Perilla de parámetros: Gire estas perillas para ajustar distintos parámetros de efectos. El enfoque de
      la perilla de parámetros se indica en la pantalla táctil con una caret blanca para cada banco.
19.   FX 1–3: Pulse cada uno de estos botones para activar o desactivar el efecto de software
      correspondiente en un banco de tres efectos.
20.   Flex FX: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar efectos internos del Seventy-Two MKII.
21.   Depth: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la mezcla “wet-dry” (señal húmeda/señal seca) de los Flex FX
      internos en esa bandeja.
22.   Sampler Level: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el nivel de volumen del muestreador del software.
23.   Perilla LP/HP del muestreador: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el filtro aplicado al muestreador del
      software. Gire la perilla en sentido antihorario para aplicar un filtro pasabajos. Gire esta perilla en
      sentido horario para aplicar un filtro pasaaltos. Ajuste la perilla a la posición central (“12:00”) para
      obtener una respuesta “plana” (sin filtros).
24.   Botón Effects del muestreador: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar los efectos para el
      muestreador del software.
      Nota: Debe seleccionarse el muestreador en el menú de encaminamiento de efectos. Consulte
      Efectos para ver más detalles.
25.   Cue Level: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el nivel de volumen del canal de cue.
26.   Cue Mix: Gírela para mezclar el canal de cue y la mezcla del programa en las salidas de auriculares.
      Cuando se gira totalmente a la izquierda, sólo se oye el canal de cue. Cuando se gira totalmente a la
      derecha, se oye sólo la mezcla del programa.
27.   Split Cue: Cuando este botón está iluminado en la posición On (Activado), se “divide” el audio de los
      auriculares de modo que el canal de cue se suma a mono y se envía al canal del auricular izquierdo
      mientras que la mezcla del programa se suma a mono y se envía al canal derecho. Cuando el botón
      no está iluminado en la posición Off (Desactivado), el canal de cue y la mezcla del programa se
      “combinan”. En ambos casos, use la perilla Cue Mix para controlar la mezcla de las dos señales.
28.   Cue de la bandeja: Pulse este botón para enviar la señal pre-fader de esta bandeja al canal de cue
      para monitoreo. Cuando está pulsado, el botón se enciende. Para colocar en el punto de cue varios
      canales simultáneamente, pulse los botones Cue de ambas bandejas.
29.   Fader del canal: Mueva este fader para ajustar el nivel de volumen de la bandeja correspondiente.
30.   Crossfader: Mueva este fader para mezclar las bandejas.
31.   Main: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de las salidas principales. El medidor junto a
      esta perilla indica el nivel de volumen de la señal (redúzcalo si comienza a "recortarse" y llega a la
      parte roja del medidor).
32.   Booth: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de las salidas de la cabina.
33.   Session Out: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de las salidas Session.
34.   Session In: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el volumen de salida de las entradas Session.
35.   Cue Session In: Pulse este botón para enviar la señal desde las entradas Session al canal de cue
      para monitoreo. Cuando está pulsado, el botón se enciende.
36.   Level del Mic 1: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la ganancia de la entrada Mic 1. El medidor junto a esta
      perilla indica el nivel de volumen de la señal (redúzcalo si comienza a "recortarse" y llega a la parte
      roja del medidor).
37.   Tone del Mic 1: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el balance de frecuencias bajas (graves) y altas (agudas)
      de la señal de audio procedente de la entrada Mic 1.

26
38.   On/Duck del Mic 1: Pulse este control para activar o desactivar la entrada Mic 1 del panel trasero.
      Mantenga pulsado este botón durante 2 segundos para activar la característica “ducking” (atenuación
      automática), la cual reduce el nivel de volumen de todas las demás entradas en 10 dB. El botón
      parpadeará cuando esta característica está activa. Pulse este botón una vez más para desactivar esta
      característica y la entrada Mic 1.
39.   Echo del Mic 1: Pulse este botón para activar o desactivar el efecto de eco en la señal de la entrada
      Mic 1. Gire la perilla Mic 1 Echo del panel frontal para ajustar la cantidad de efecto.


Panel trasero

                                                                   8         8
                                 14           13              9        9             11 12
                     2
                                                                                     11 12
                     1          3       3 4 6 5
                                                              10             7
1.    Entrada de alimentación: Con el Seventy-Two MKII apagado, conecte el cable de alimentación
      incluido a esta entrada y, a continuación, en una toma de corriente.
2.    Interruptor de encendido: Utilice este interruptor para encender y apagar el Seventy-Two MKII.
      Encienda el Seventy-Two MKII después de haber conectado todos sus dispositivos de entrada y
      antes de encender sus amplificadores y altavoces. Apague sus amplificadores y altavoces antes de
      apagar el Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    Salida Main (XLR): Conecte estas salidas a un sistema de altavoces o amplificador. Utilice la perilla
      Master (Maestro) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el nivel de volumen.
4.    Salida Booth (1/4 pulg./6,35 mm, TRS): Conecte estas salidas a un sistema de monitores de cabina o
      amplificador de cabina. Utilice la perilla Booth (Cabina) ubicada en el panel superior para controlar el
      nivel de volumen.
5.    Entrada Session (RCA): Conecte estas entradas desde un dispositivo de nivel de línea como otro
      mezclador, un reproductor de CD, una caja de ritmos, etc. La señal se enviará directamente a la
      mezcla de programa. Gire la perilla Session In ubicada en el panel superior para ajustar el nivel de
      volumen.
6.    Salida Session (RCA): Conecte estas salidas a otro mezclador, dispositivo de grabación, etc. La
      mezcla de programa se enviará a estas salidas. Gire la perilla Session Out ubicada en el panel
      superior para ajustar el nivel de volumen.
7.    Entrada PH/CD de la bandeja (RCA): Conecte estas entradas a una fuente de audio externa o a un
      giradiscos, reproductor de CD u otro dispositivo de nivel de línea. Recuerde ajustar el selector PH/CD
      correspondiente a la posición adecuada y ajustar la perilla de la fuente de esa bandeja a PH/CD
      para reproducir su señal de audio en dicha bandeja.
8.    Selector PH/CD: Ajuste este interruptor a la posición adecuada, en función del dispositivo conectado
      a las entradas PH/CD de la bandeja correspondiente. Si utiliza giradiscos de nivel fonográfico, ajuste
      este interruptor a PH para proporcionar la amplificación adicional necesaria para las señales de este
      nivel. Si está utilizando un dispositivo de nivel de línea, como un giradiscos de nivel de línea,
      reproductor de CD o muestreador, ajuste este interruptor a CD.
9.    Phono Grounds: Si está utilizando giradiscos de nivel fonográfico con cable de conexión a tierra,
      conecte dicho cable a estos terminales. Si se experimenta un zumbido grave, puede significar que sus
      giradiscos no están conectados a tierra.
      Nota: Algunos giradiscos tienen el cable de conexión a tierra incorporado a la conexión RCA y, por lo
      tanto, no es necesario conectar nada al terminal de tierra.
10.   Entrada Aux de la bandeja (RCA): Conecte estas entradas a una fuente de audio de nivel de línea
      externa. Recuerde ajustar la perilla de la fuente de esa bandeja a Aux para reproducir su señal de
      audio en dicha bandeja.

                                                                                                            27
11.   Entradas Mic 1–2 (XLR / 1/4 pulg. / 6,35 mm, TS): Conecte micrófonos o dispositivos de nivel de
      línea a estas entradas mono. Sus señales de audio mono se dividen y encaminan directamente a la
      mezcla de programa estéreo y al canal de cue. Si prefiere una entrada de línea estéreo, puede
      utilizarse la entrada Session.
12.   Selector Line/Mic: Ajuste este interruptor a la posición adecuada, en función del dispositivo
      conectado a las entradas Mic 1–2. Si está utilizando un micrófono, ajuste este interruptor a Mic. Si
      está utilizando un dispositivo de nivel de línea, como un teclado o muestreador, ajuste este interruptor
      a Line.
13.   Puertos USB del Twelve/Controller (USB tipo A): Utilice unos cables USB para conectar estos
      puertos USB a sus controladores como Twelve o un controlador MIDI USB estándar
      Importante: No conecte unidades USB a estos puertos. Conmutar la perilla de la fuente de la
      bandeja forzará la expulsión de la unidad del ordenador conectado, lo que podría dañar el contenido,
      por lo que debe evitarse.
14.   Puertos USB (USB tipo B): Utilice unos cables USB para conectar estos puertos USB a puertos USB
      disponibles en su ordenador. Estas conexiones envían y reciben audio e información de controles
      MIDI desde y hacia el ordenador.
      Nota: Asegúrese de haber descargado e instalado el panel de control de Rane desde dj.rane.com.


Panel frontal


                                            7         6
                                                                        9
                     2        3                                                   1
                     5        4
                                                                       10
                                                      8
1.    Salidas para auriculares (1/4 pulg., 1/8 pulg. / 6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS): Conecte sus auriculares de
      1/4 o 1/8 pulg. (6,35 o 3,5 mm) a esta salida para búsqueda del punto inicial (cueing) y monitoreo de
      la mezcla.
2.    Mic 2 On: Cuando se coloca en On (Si), la entrada Mic 2 del panel trasero está activa y su señal de
      audio se encamina directamente a la mezcla de programa y la mezcla de cue. Cuando se coloca en
      Off (No), la entrada Mic 2 se desactiva.
3.    Level del Mic 2: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la ganancia de la entrada Mic 2.
4.    Tone del Mic 2: Gire esta perilla para ajustar el balance de frecuencias bajas (graves) y altas (agudas)
      de la señal de audio procedente de la entrada Mic 2.
5.    Mic 1 Echo: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la cantidad de efecto de eco en la señal de entrada Mic 1.
      Pulse el botón Echo del Mic 1 en el panel superior para activar o desactivar este efecto.
6.    Perilla de tensión: Gire esta perilla para ajustar la tensión del crossfader. Gire la perilla hacia la
      izquierda para ablandar el crossfader y obtener una sensación más liviana y a la derecha para
      tensionarlo y obtener una sensación más pesada.
7.    Contour Controls: Permite ajustar la pendiente de la curva del crossfader. Gire la perilla a la izquierda
      para una fusión suave (mezcla) o a la derecha para un corte abrupto (rayado). La posición central es
      un ajuste típico para actuaciones en clubes.
8.    Reverse del Fader: Ajuste este interruptor a On para invertir la dirección (polaridad) del fader
      correspondiente. Ajuste el interruptor a Off para usar la polaridad del fader convencional.
9.    Deck Swap: Ajuste este interruptor a la posición On (encendido) para intercambiar los faders de los
      canales izquierdo y derecho según lo controlado por el Seventy-Two MKII. Ajuste el interruptor a Off
      (apagado) para usar la configuración de la bandeja convencional.
10.   Entrada Footswitch (1/4 pulg. / 6,35 mm, TRS): Conecte un interruptor de pedal aquí, el cual puede
      utilizarse para activar o desactivar efectos. También puede asignar esta entrada a otras funciones.
      Esta entrada admite un interruptor de pedal con tres interruptores con cierre de contacto pasivo.

28
Funcionamiento

Pantalla táctil

Para alternar entre las vistas de forma de onda y biblioteca, pulse el botón View/Menu.

Vista de forma de onda
En la vista de forma de onda, las formas de onda de las pistas se
muestran verticalmente, con el canal 1 del lado izquierdo y el canal 2 en el                    1
lado derecho. La forma de onda más grande representa una sección de la           2
pista actual. La forma de onda más pequeña representa la totalidad de la
pista actual.
                                                                                 3
1.     Tiempo: Muestra el tiempo restante de la pista actual.
2.     Tono/Bloqueo de tono: Mantenga pulsado Shift y toque este
       icono para alternar entre las vistas de tono y bloqueo de tono.
       Cuando se selecciona un tono, se mostrará el tono de la pista actual
                                                                                4
       y podrá tocar para activar o desactivar la sincronización de tono.
       Cuando el bloqueo de tono esté seleccionado, se mostrará un icono
       de bloqueo de tono (o icono de Serato Pitch 'n Time, si está
       instalado) y podrá tocar para activar o desactivar el bloqueo de tono.   5
       Cuando cualquiera de las opciones este activada, el campo se
       iluminará.
3.     Descripción general: La forma de onda más pequeña representa
       una descripción general de la pista actual en su totalidad. Puede        6
       usar su dedo para "barrer" la pista mientras se está reproduciendo.                     7
       También puede pellizcar con dos dedos para aplicar zoom en
       acercamiento en la forma de onda más grande y separar los dedos
       para aplicar zoom en alejamiento.
       Nota: Si la opción Disable Needle Search (desactivar búsqueda de
       púa) de Serato DJ Pro esta activada, deberá pulsar Shift para
       barrer la pista.
4.     Posición de la canción: Posición de la cabeza de reproducción de la pista actual.
5.     Cues rápidos: Muestra los cues rápidos por color.
6.     Sync: Cuando Sync está activado, el campo se iluminará y los indicadores de BPM se iluminarán en
       color azul. Para activar o desactivar la sincronización, mantenga pulsado Shift y toque el icono de
       cualquiera de los canales.
7.     BPM: Pulsos por minuto de la pista actual.
Nota: Si el Load/Scroll Touch (Cargar/desplazarse por la pantalla táctil) está activado y usted está en la
vista Waveform (Forma de onda), al tocar la perilla Load/Scroll se abrirá rápidamente la vista Library
(Biblioteca). Consulte Menú principal para aprender a activar y desactivar esta opción.


Vista de la biblioteca                                                               Pantalla táctil con
                                                                                vista de biblioteca ampliada
En la vista de biblioteca, la pantalla muestra la biblioteca del ordenador
conectado. Si el Seventy-Two MKII está conectado a dos ordenadores, se
mostrará aquel al que se le asignaron por última vez ambas bandejas.
Para cambiar los modos de vista, deslice su dedo hacia abajo sobre el
icono del menú desplegable que se encuentra en la parte superior de la
vista de la lista de pistas y, a continuación, toque el icono para cambiar al
modo deseado—Vista simple o Vista ampliada.
Para recorrer las pistas, gire la perilla Load/Scroll.
Para recorrer las pistas rápidamente, pulse Shift y gire la perilla
Load/Scroll.
Para abrir una caja de discos o cargar una pista en una bandeja, pulse
la perilla Load/Scroll.
Para retroceder un nivel, pulse Back.


                                                                                                         29
Menú principal
Para acceder al menú principal, pulse Shift y View/Menu o mantenga pulsado View/Menu
durante 4 segundos. El menú principal contiene las siguientes opciones.

Ajustes del mezclador: Seleccione esta opción para editar los siguientes ajustes:
 •   Audio Out (Salida de audio): Seleccione esta opción para editar los ajustes de la salida
     principal, la señal limpia del micrófono 1, y el balance de la bandeja.
     Nota: Cuando la salida limpia está activada, el micrófono 1 no enviará audio mientras se
     grabe en Serato DJ Pro.
 •   Deck Settings: Seleccione esta opción para editar los ajustes de sensibilidad 1/2 y XOver de
     tonos 1/2 del interruptor fonográfico.
     Nota: Ajuste la Phono Sensitivity sensibilidad fonográfica según los ajustes recomendados
     por el fabricante de su cápsula.
 •   Filter Setup (Configuración del filtro): Seleccione esta opción para editar Deck 1/2 Resonance
     (Resonancia de Deck 1/2), Sampler Resonance (Resonancia del muestreador), la frecuencia
     de corte de la posición LOW de las perillas del filtro (Low Pass Min) (Mínimo del pasabajos) o
     la frecuencia de corte de la posición HI de las perillas del filtro (High Pass Max) (Máximo del
     pasaaltos).
 •   Pad Setup: Seleccione esta opción para editar los ajustes de sensibilidad del pad:
 •   Headphone Setup: Seleccione esta opción para editar el ajuste de tono de los auriculares.
 •   Mic 1 Setup (Configuración del micrófono 1): Seleccione esta opción para editar la magnitud
     de realimentación del eco del micrófono (Mic 1 Echo Fdbk), el umbral de atenuación del
     micrófono (Mic 1 Duck Thresh) o el tiempo de retención de la atenuación (Mic 1 Duck Hold).
 •   Touch FX Setup (Configuración de Touch FX): Seleccione esta opción para editar el Button
     Mode (Modo de botones) que determina la función del botón Touch FX (Efectos táctiles). En
     modo Touch FX, que es la opción predeterminada, al tocar el botón se abre la pantalla Touch
     FX. El LED del botón se iluminará con luz verde fija en todo momento. Brillará cuando esté
     abierta la pantalla Touch FX y se atenuará cuando no lo esté. En modo Tap, al tocar el botón
     se configurará el tempo del efecto para la bandeja enfocada y manteniendo pulsado Shift
     mientras se pulsa el botón, se abrirá la pantalla Touch FX. El LED del botón estará apagado
     excepto cuando se pulse.

Flex FX: Seleccione esta opción para ver y editar los ajustes de Flex FX internos.
 •   Beats Mult.: Seleccione esta opción para determinar los incrementos en que se pueden ajustar
     las temporizaciones de Flex FX.
     o   En modo Extended (Extendido), puede ajustar Flex FX a las temporizaciones estándar que
         varían de 1/32 a 32 beats y también como variantes de puntillo y triplete de cada una de
         estas temporizaciones.
     o   En modo Simple, que es el predeterminado, puede ajustar los beats de Flex FX solo a las
         temporizaciones estándar (no a temporizaciones de triplete y puntillo).
     o   En modo No Dotted (Sin puntillo), los beats de Flex FX incluyen temporizaciones estándar
         y de triplete, pero no temporizaciones de puntillo.
     o   En modo No Triplet (Sin triplete), los beats de Flex FX incluyen temporizaciones estándar y
         de puntillo, pero no temporizaciones de triplete.
 •   FX List: Puede editar cualquier efecto enumerado debajo de la opción Beats Mult.
     o   Para añadir o quitar un efecto de la lista de favoritos, toque el círculo del lado derecho de
         la pantalla. Cuando el círculo está en verde, el efecto se incluirá en la lista de Flex FX en la
         vista de efectos. Cuando el círculo está vacío y el nombre del efecto está en gris, el efecto
         ya no aparecerá en la lista.
     o   Para configurar los ajustes predeterminados de los Flex FX internos, toque el icono de la
         llave. toque el icono de la llave.

30
Cut-In Adjust: Seleccione esta opción para abrir el menú de
configuración Cut-In Adjust. Esto controla la cantidad de
espacio muerto entre las posiciones cerrada y abierta de un
fader. Seleccione el fader que desea ajustar, mueva el fader
seleccionado a la posición deseada y pulse Set (Ajustar) para
guardar el ajuste.




Footswitch: Seleccione esta opción para ajustar las asignaciones correspondientes a Footswitch
1/2/3 (Interruptor de pedal 1/2/3).
 •   Si se asigna a MIDI, al tocar un interruptor de pedal se ejecuta una función MIDI programada
     en su software Serato.
 •   Si se asigna a FX 1 Latch o FX 2 Latch, al tocar un interruptor de pedal se engancha un efecto
     para la bandeja Deck 1 o 2.
 •   Si se asigna a FX 1 Moment o FX 2 Moment, al tocar un interruptor de pedal se dispara
     momentáneamente un efecto para la bandeja Deck 1 o 2.
 •   Si se asigna a Tap, al tocar un interruptor de pedal se ajusta el tempo del efecto para la
     bandeja enfocada en ese momento en la pantalla táctil.


Display: Seleccione esta opción para ver y editar los ajustes de la pantalla táctil.
 •   Screen Brightness: Seleccione esta opción para cambiar el brillo de la pantalla.
 •   Scroll Touch: Seleccione esta opción para determinar si al tocar la perilla Load/Scroll se le
     direcciona a la vista Library desde la vista Waveform.
 •   Pad Mode Display: Seleccione esta opción para determinar si las funciones de Performace
     Pad se muestran en la pantalla táctil cuando se pulsa Pad Mode (Modo de pad).
 •   Startup View: Seleccione esta opción para elegir la vista predeterminada cuando se enciende
     el Seventy-Two MKII (Waveform, Library o Effects).
     Nota: Se requiere una conexión a Serato para encender la vista Waveform o Library (Forma de
     onda o Biblioteca). Si no está conectado a Serato, el Seventy-Two MKII se encenderá en la
     vista Effects (Efectos).


Restauración de los ajustes predeterminados de fábrica

Para restaurar los ajustes originales de un campo específico del menú, elija primero alguna de
las opciones del menú principal. El último elemento de cada campo del menú es Restore Defaults
(Restaurar opciones predeterminadas). Seleccione este elemento. Aparecerá un mensaje
emergente. Seleccione Restore (Restaurar) para restaurar los ajustes originales o Cancel (Cancelar)
para volver.


Para restaurar el Seventy-Two MKII a sus ajustes originales de todos los menús a la vez, vaya
primero al menú principal. Luego deslice su dedo hacia arriba por la pantalla táctil. Aparecerá un
elemento de lista llamado Factory Reset (Restablecimiento de los valores de fábrica). Seleccione
este elemento. Aparecerá un mensaje emergente. Elija Restore para devolver todos los ajustes a
sus valores predeterminados o Cancel para volver.



                                                                                                 31
Efectos

Vista Efectos

Pulse el botón Effects/Tap para abrir la vista Efectos, donde puede editar los efectos de ambos bancos
de FX (A y B) y controlar qué efectos se activan en cada bandeja.

Cada banco de efectos contiene hasta 3 efectos de software,
además de los Flex FX internos, para un total de hasta 8
efectos que se pueden añadir y encaminar hacia la bandeja 1,
la bandeja 2 o el muestreador. De forma predeterminada, los
efectos se encaminan a la bandeja 1 y la bandeja 2.

Para cambiar el enrutamiento de los efectos:
1.   Toque los iconos azules 1/2/S ubicados en la parte
     superior de la pantalla del menú de enrutamiento.
2.   Seleccione hacia dónde desea encaminar los efectos y, a
     continuación, pulse OK para volver a la página anterior.
     Ambos bancos de efectos se pueden encaminar hacia
     la(s) misma(s) bandeja(s).

Para añadir y utilizar los efectos:
1.   Pulse el botón Effects para abrir la vista de efectos.
2.   Toque la pantalla táctil para seleccionar el efecto
     deseado, y pulse la perilla de parámetros para cambiar
     al modo de selección de efectos especiales.
3.   Gire la perilla de parámetros para recorrer la lista de
     efectos, y pulse la perilla para cargar el efecto en esa
     ranura.
4.   Pulse los botones FX 1–3 o Flex FX para activar el efecto en la cadena. Los efectos se aplican
     secuencialmente en la cadena (FX1 > FX2 > FX3 > Flex FX).
5.   Use los conmutadores de efectos para aplicar los efectos a las bandejas 1 y 2. Pulse el
     conmutador alejándolo de usted para bloquear un efecto o tire de él acercándolo hacia usted para
     disparar momentáneamente un efecto.
     Mantenga pulsado el botón Sampler Effects (efectos del muestreador) para aplicar los efectos al
     muestreador.

Para editar un efecto de software:
1.   Toque el efecto en la pantalla.
2.   Gire la perilla de parámetros para comenzar a editar el parámetro seleccionado. Pulse la perilla de
     parámetros para cambiar al modo de selección de efectos especiales de software para el efecto
     enfocado.

Para editar los Flex FX internos:
1.   Toque la perilla de parámetros para enfocar el efecto deseado y, a continuación, utilice la perilla de
     parámetros para ajustar. Haga un doble toque sobre el efecto deseado para modificar los ajustes
     predeterminados del Flex FX. Todos los cambios serán guardados en el mezclador.
2.   Para editar el tiempo del efecto, toque en Timing y gire la perilla de parámetros.
     Nota: Los ajustes de tiempo son por banco. Para el Beat Breaker (Tartamudeo) y Reverb Flex FX
     (Efecto de reverberación) el parámetro ajustable no es el tiempo sino el número de patrón y el
     porcentaje de decaimiento respectivamente.
     Consejo: Después de seleccionar el número de patrón de Beat Breaker, mantenga pulsado Shift y
     presione la perilla de parámetros (Parámetro) para editar el patrón. Efectúe la edición girando y
     presionando la perilla de parámetros para subir o bajar bloques en el patrón. Para salir del modo de
     edición, pulse Shift y la perilla de parámetros otra vez. Tenga en cuenta que solo los patrones 11-
     16 se guardarán en el mezclador al apagarlo.


32
Touch FX

Pulse el botón Touch FX para abrir la pantalla Touch FX, que puede tocar simplemente para activar
y manipular los efectos en la bandeja 1 o 2.


Para seleccionar la bandeja a la que se aplicará el Touch FX, toque la flecha de la bandeja
respectiva. Se resaltarán los botones FX correspondientes a los efectos encaminados a esa
bandeja.


Para activar y manipular los efectos encaminados a la bandeja, deslice su dedo por la pantalla.
Deslizar el dedo en el eje Y aplica un filtro pasaaltos (arriba) o pasabajos (abajo). Deslizar el dedo de
sobre el eje X modifica el parámetro Time de cualquier Flex FX activo. El parámetro Time (Tiempo)
del Flex FX se mostrará al pie de la pantalla Touch FX y se actualizará cuando deslice su dedo a
izquierda o derecha sobre el eje X. Al levantar el dedo de la pantalla táctil, el filtro se desactiva y la
temporización del efecto volverá a su ajuste anterior. Puede modificar el parámetro Time
predeterminado desde la pantalla Touch FX tocándolo y girando la perilla de parámetros.
Nota: Para el Beat Breaker (Tartamudeo) y Reverb Flex FX (Efecto de reverberación) el parámetro
ajustable no es el tiempo sino el número de patrón y el porcentaje de decaimiento respectivamente.

Nota: La edición de Beat Breaker puede introducirse desde la pantalla Touch FX tocando el número
de patrón y pulsando luego Shift y la perilla de parámetros. Para más información, consulte
Efectos > Vista Efectos más arriba.


Para cambiar el efecto Flex activado en la bandeja, toque el nombre del efecto, presione la
perilla Parameter para entrar al modo de selección de FX y a continuación gire la perilla
Parameter para realizar un ciclo de los efectos. Pulse nuevamente la perilla Parameter salir del
modo de selección de FX.




                                                                                                       33
Modos de pads

Este capítulo describe los distintos modos de pads.
Cada bandeja tiene ocho pads, los cuales siempre
están en uno de estos modos, y los pads de cada
bandeja pueden estar en un modo diferente. Pulse uno               1          2   3    4
de los botones de modo de pads para entrar al modo
de pad correspondiente en esa bandeja. Cada uno de
los botones de modo de pads alterna entre dos modos                5          6   7    8
con cada pulsación.

Consejo: En cada modo de pad, pulse Shift y uno de
los botones de modo de pads para acceder a modos
adicionales o utilizar modos personalizados.




Con Pad Mode Display activado, al pulsar un botón Pad Mode se
muestra la función de cada Pad para actuaciones en vivo cuando se
acciona dentro del modo seleccionado. Esta presentación aparece al pie
de la pantalla táctil, si usted está en la vista Forma de onda o Efectos, o
en la pantalla Touch FX. Toque cualquier parte de esta pantalla para
retenerla en la pantalla táctil. De lo contrario, desaparecerá en 5
segundos. Consulte Menú principal para aprender a activar y desactivar
esta característica.




Cue
En el modo de cue, cada pad asigna un punto de cue rápido o hace que la pista vuelva a ese punto
de cue rápido.

Para entrar al modo de cue, pulse Cue / Pitch Play de modo que se ilumine en blanco.
Para asignar un punto de cue rápido, pulse un pad apagado en el punto deseado de su pista. El
pad se iluminará cuando se lo asigne (con el color correspondiente, si está disponible).

Para saltar a un punto de cue rápido, pulse un pad iluminado.
Para borrar un punto de cue rápido asignado, pulse Shift y el pad correspondiente.




34
Reproducción de tonos
                                                                             Arriba
En el modo de reproducción de tonos, cada pad
reproduce la pista desde un punto de cue rápido en         +4       +5        +6        +7
una transposición diferente (ajustable por semitonos). semitonos semitonos semitonos semitonos
El paquete de expansión para DJ Serato Pitch ‘n
Time debe estar instalado para poder utilizar este
modo. Consulte Cue para aprender cómo asignar               0
puntos de cue rápidos.                                              +1        +2        +3
                                                         (tono
                                                                     semitono    semitonos semitonos
Nota: Se incluye una tarjeta de descarga con número      original)
de serie Serato Pitch 'n Time con su Seventy-Two MKII.

Para entrar al modo de reproducción de tonos,                                Medio
pulse Cue / Pitch Play de modo que se ilumine en
verde.                                                       0
                                                                        +1          +2        +3
                                                          (tono
Para seleccionar el punto de cue rápido que                          semitono    semitonos semitonos
                                                         original)
desea utilizar, pulse Shift y un pad tenuemente
iluminado.
                                                            -4          -3            -2      -1
Para seleccionar el rango de transposiciones que semitonos semitonos semitonos semitono
utilizará el pad, use los botones Parameter /
(consulte los diagramas aquí detallados).

Para ajustar el tono de la pista actual hacia arriba
o hacia abajo, pulse Shift y los botones
Parameter / respectivamente.                                               Abajo
Para reproducir la pista desde el punto de cue                                         0
rápido, pulse un pad iluminado. Cada pad               -3        -2         -1
                                                                                    (tono
corresponde a una transposición específica (por     semitonos semitonos  semitono
                                                                                   original)
semitonos), en función del rango de transposición
actual (consulte los diagramas aquí detallados). El
pad sin transposición (el tono original) estará        -7        -6         -5        -4
iluminado en blanco.                                semitonos semitonos semitonos semitonos




Bucle automático

En el modo de bucle automático, cada pad dispara o libera un bucle automático de diferente
longitud. La grilla de bucles del software determina el tamaño del bucle.
Para entrar al modo de bucle automático, pulse Auto Loop / Man Loop de modo que se ilumine
en azul oscuro.
Para cambiar las ocho longitudes de bucles automáticos que se muestran (en el software),
pulse cualquiera de los botones Parameter /. La disposición de los pads cambiará para que
coincida.

Para desplazar el bucle automático hacia atrás o hacia adelante, pulse Shift y los botones
Parameter /, respectivamente.




                                                                                                   35
Bucle manual

En el modo de bucle manual, cada pad hará volver la 1               2              3            4
pista a un bucle anteriormente creado y guardado.
Las disposiciones de pads de los dos bancos son       Loop 1            Loop 2         Loop 3       Loop 4
idénticas.
Para entrar al modo de bucle manual, pulse Auto 5                   6              7          8
Loop / Man Loop de modo que se ilumine en verde. Entrada                 Salida     Activar / Repetición
                                                         del loop       del loop   desactivar   de loop
Para crear un bucle, pulse el pad 5 para establecer                                  loop
el punto de entrada del bucle y, a continuación, pulse
el pad 6 para establecer el punto de salida del bucle
y activar el mismo.
Para guardar un bucle, mientras está activo un bucle, pulse un pad apagado de la fila superior
(pads 1–4). Puede hacer esto independientemente de la forma en la que se creó el bucle (modo de
bucle automático, modo de bucle manual, etc.).
Para activar o desactivar un bucle guardado, pulse un pad iluminado de la fila superior (pads 1–
4).
Para borrar un bucle guardado, pulse Shift y un pad iluminado de la fila superior (pads 1–4).
Para activar o desactivar el bucle que se activó por última vez, pulse pad 7.
Para reactivar inmediatamente el bucle que se activó por última vez (“reloop”), pulse el pad 8.
Para duplicar o dividir a la mitad la longitud de un bucle, pulse los botones Parameter /,
respectivamente.
Para cambiar un bucle hacia atrás o hacia adelante, pulse Shift y los botones Parameter /,
respectivamente.


Bucle manual 2

Para activar el modo Bucle manual 2, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse Auto Loop / Man Loop
(2) de modo que se encienda con luz amarilla. En este modo, los pads 1–4 se utilizan para activar
o desactivar los bucles 5–8 respectivamente.


Redoble

En el modo de redoble, cada pad dispara un redoble de bucle momentáneo. Al soltar el pad, se
detiene el redoble del bucle y se retoma la reproducción normal donde se encontraría el cabezal de
reproducción si no se hubiese disparado el redoble del bucle (es decir, como si la pista se hubiese
estado reproduciendo en avance todo el tiempo).
Nota: Desactive Show Beat Jump Controls (Mostrar controles de salteo de beats) en el menú
Setup de Serato para acceder a 8 bucles enrollados a la vez. También puede ver y editar los
tamaños de bucles configurados en el software.
Para entrar al modo de redoble, pulse Roll / Pad FX de modo que se ilumine en color agua.
Para disparar un redoble de bucle, mantenga pulsado un pad.
Para cambiar cuáles son las ocho longitudes de bucles con retorno que se muestran (en el
software), pulse cualquiera de los botones Parameter /. La disposición de los pads cambiará
para que coincida.
Para desplazar el bucle con retorno hacia atrás o hacia adelante, pulse Shift y los botones
Parameter /, respectivamente.


36
Efectos especiales de los pads
En el modo de efectos especiales de los pads, estos         1           2          3          4
seleccionan y activan efectos. La fila superior de
                                                                Vinyl
pads selecciona el tipo de efecto, y la fila inferior                   Backspin       Gate       Echo
                                                                Brake
dispara y controla la longitud del mismo.

Para entrar al modo de efectos especiales de los 5                      6          7          8
pads, pulse Roll / Pad FX de modo que se ilumine
en color amarillo.                               Tamaño 1               Tamaño 2   Tamaño 3   Tamaño 4

Para seleccionar el efecto de freno de vinilo, pulse
el pad 1. Cuando se dispara el efecto de freno de
vinilo mediante los pads de la fila inferior, el audio se
ralentiza como si se hubiese detenido un plato
fonográfico, silenciándose progresivamente después
del tiempo seleccionado.
Para seleccionar el efecto de retroceso, pulse el pad 2. Cuando se dispara el efecto de retroceso
mediante los pads de la fila inferior, el audio se reproduce hacia atrás y se acelera como si se girara
un plato fonográfico hacia atrás, silenciándose progresivamente después del tiempo seleccionado.

Para seleccionar el efecto de compuerta, pulse el pad 3. Cuando se dispara el efecto de
compuerta mediante uno de los pads de la fila inferior, se aplica una compuerta basada en el tiempo
al audio en función del tamaño seleccionado.

Para seleccionar el efecto de eco, pulse el pad 4. Cuando el efecto de eco se dispara mediante
los pads de la fila inferior, el audio emitirá un eco hasta silenciarse en función del tamaño
seleccionado.
Nota: El efecto de eco puede combinarse con otros efectos. Todos los demás efectos son
excluyentes.

Para disparar el efecto seleccionado, pulse uno entre los pads 5–8. Cada pad activa el efecto
inmediatamente con un tamaño establecido, aumentando del pad 5 (tiempo más corto) al pad 8
(tiempo más largo). Cuando se dispara un efecto, el pad seleccionado parpadeará.
Nota: Al seleccionar un nuevo modo de pad, se desactivan todos los efectos especiales de los pads
activos en ese momento.


Muestreador

En el modo de muestreador, los pads controlan el muestreador del software. Cada uno de los pads
dispara un muestreador a un volumen especificado (puede asignar la muestra y su volumen en el
software).

Para entrar al modo de muestreador, pulse Sampler / Fader FX de modo que se ilumine en
púrpura.
Para asignar una muestra, resalte primero la muestra deseada en su biblioteca. Luego mantenga
pulsado Shift y presione el pad correspondiente a una ranura vacía del muestreador. El volumen
de la ranura del muestreador se puede ajustar en Serato.

Para reproducir una muestra, pulse un pad iluminado. El pad parpadeará mientras se reproduce
la muestra.

Para detener la reproducción de una muestra, pulse Shift y un pad mientras se reproduce.
Para recorrer los bancos de muestras, pulsa los botones Parameter /.
Para recorrer las salidas del muestreador, pulse Shift y los botones Parameter /.


                                                                                                         37
Efectos especiales del fader
En el modo de efectos especiales del fader, los pads 1             2             3             4
silenciarán y desilenciarán la señal de audio de la 1-Click            2-Click       3-Click       4-Click
bandeja emulando los movimientos del crossfader           Flare         Flare         Flare         Flare
hacia dicha bandeja. Un “clic” es un movimiento del
crossfader hacia una bandeja (“abierto”) y luego
alejándose de esa bandeja (“cerrado”). Los DJ 5                    6
                                                                     2-to-1
                                                                                 7             8
utilizan clics en distintos patrones rítmicos (a menudo Trans-     Alternator    Tri-forms           Uzi
junto con el rayado) para crear distintos efectos.      formers
                                                                      Baby
Para entrar al modo de efectos especiales del
fader, pulse Sampler / Fader FX de modo que se
ilumine en verde.
Para disparar un efecto del fader, pulse uno entre los pads 1–8.
Para invertir un efecto, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse uno entre los pads 1–8.


Voltear
Si ha comprado el Serato Flip Expansion Pack, 1                    2             3             4
puede acceder al control Flip manteniendo pulsado
Shift y pulsando Sampler / Fader FX (4). Si no ha    Flip 1          Flip 2        Flip 3         Flip 4
comprado el Flip Expansion Pack, esta característica
estará disponible como un modo de pad
personalizado.                                       5             6             7             8
                                                                                   Sin               Sin
En este modo, los pads apagados no tienen un flip       Flip 5         Flip 6
                                                                                 Función           Función
asignado. Los pads encendidos con luz azul tienen
un flip asignado pero no se están reproduciendo, los
encendidos con luz anaranjada tienen un flip
asignado y se están reproduciendo en ese momento.

Para asignar un flip a un pad, presione un pad apagado (1-6).
Para reproducir un flip asignado, pulse el pad iluminado en azul correspondiente (1-6).
Para detener inmediatamente la reproducción de un flip, mantenga pulsado Shift y presione el
pad iluminado en naranja correspondiente (1-6).
Para comenzar la grabación de un flip, pulse el botón Parameter  izquierdo correspondiente.

Para volver al comienzo del flip seleccionado, pulse el botón Parameter  derecho
correspondiente.
Para conmutar el bucle de la ranura del flip, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón
Parameter  izquierdo.
Para activar y desactivar la ranura del flip, mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse el botón Parameter
 derecho.




38
Cortador

Importante: Su pista debe tener una grilla de beats establecida para que este modo funcione.
En el modo de cortador, los 8 pads representan 8 1                  2           3             4
pulsos secuenciales—“cortes”—de la grilla de beats.
El pad iluminado representa el corte que se está Corte 1            Corte 2         Corte 3       Corte 4
reproduciendo en ese momento. La luz "recorre los
pads" a medida que progresa a lo largo de cada una
de las frases de ocho cortes. Puede pulsar un pad 5                 6           7             8
para reproducir ese corte. Cuando suelte el pad, se Corte 5         Corte 6         Corte 7       Corte 8
reanuda la reproducción normal de la pista desde
donde habría estado si nunca lo hubiera presionado
(es decir, como si la pista hubiera estado
reproduciéndose en avance todo el tiempo).

Para entrar al modo de cortador, pulse Slicer / Transport de modo que se ilumine en rojo. La
bandeja saldrá del modo de cortador si carga otra pista en la bandeja o activa el modo de edición de
la grilla.
Para reproducir un corte, pulse el pad correspondiente.
Para aumentar o reducir el tamaño de cuantificación, pulse los botones Parameter /.

Para aumentar o reducir el tamaño de los cortes, pulse Shift y los botones Parameter /.



Transporte
En el modo de control de transporte, los pads se
corresponden con los distintos controles de             Inflexión   Inflexión   Fader de      Fader de
transporte. El software entrará automáticamente en      de pitch    de pitch      pitch         pitch
el modo interno cuando haga esto (si está utilizando         -          +           -             +
un controlador Twelve con Seventy-Two MKII, el
software siempre estará en el modo interno).
                                                        Keylock
                                                                        Sync         Cue           
Para entrar al modo de transporte, pulse Slicer /       INT/REL
Transport de modo que se ilumine en verde.
Para doblar el tono hacia abajo momentáneamente, pulse el pad 1.
Para doblar el tono hacia arriba momentáneamente, pulse el pad 2.
Para mover el fader del tono hacia abajo, pulse el pad 3.
Para mover el fader del tono hacia arriba, pulse el pad 4.

Para activar o desactivar Keylock, pulse el pad 5.
Para cambiar entre el modo interno (INT) y el modo relativo (REL), pulse Shift y el pad 5.
(Cambiar al modo relativo le permite reanudar el control de la reproducción con vinilos de control o
CD de control).
Para activar Sync, pulse el pad 6. Pulse Shift y el pad 6 para desactivar la sincronización.
Para saltar el punto de cue, pulse el pad 7.

Para reproducir o poner en pausa la pista, pulse el pad 8.




                                                                                                        39
Bucle del cortador

Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse Slicer / Transport (5) para entrar al modo de bucle del cortador.
Los pads se comportan de manera idéntica al modo cortador, excepto que la frase de ocho cortes
realiza un loop en vez de avanzar continuamente por la pista.


Conjuntos de pads personalizados

Además de los modos de pads estándar, puede crear hasta 3 conjuntos de pads personalizados
utilizando la característica de mapeo MIDI de Serato DJ Pro.

Para crear un conjunto de pads personalizados:
1.   Mantenga pulsado Shift y pulse Cue / Pitch Play (1), Roll / Pad FX (3), o Sampler /
     Fader FX (4).
     Nota: Si ha comprado el Serato Flip Expansion Pack, al mantener pulsado Shift y pulsar
     Sampler / Fader FX (4) accederá a los controles de Flip y no a un conjunto de pads
     personalizados.

2.   En Serato DJ Pro, abra el menú Setup y seleccione MIDI.
3.   Seleccione Seventy-Two MKII y asegúrese de que Allow Serato DJ Hardware Remapping
     esté activado. Cierre la ventana Setup.

4.   En la ventana principal de Serato DJ Pro, haga clic en el botón MIDI de la parte superior de la
     pantalla para iniciar el mapeo.
5.   Haga clic en una característica de Serato DJ Pro y, a continuación, toque o mueva un control
     de su hardware para mapear la característica en ese control.
Consulte el manual de Serato DJ Pro para obtener más información sobre el mapeo MIDI.




40
Faders

Los faders de los canales son faders sin contacto MAG FOUR con tensión ajustable.
                                                                        Panel superior placa de fader
Para ajustar la tensión de los faders del Seventy-Two MKII:
1.   Asegúrese de que la unidad esté apagada y desconectada
     del suministro eléctrico.
2.   Utilice un destornillador para retirar los tornillos de la placa
     frontal inferior del panel superior donde se encuentran los
     faders (consulte la imagen).
     Nota: Las tapas de los faders deben quitarse para retirar la
     placa frontal.                                                     MAG FOUR fader
3.   Utilice un destornillador para ajustar el tornillo de tensión de   vista superior
     cada fader según lo desee.

                                              Tornillo de tensión




Panel de control

El panel de control de Rane le permite modificar los ajustes de su
mezclador Seventy-Two MKII y guardar y cargar dichos ajustes
en un archivo de configuración (.r72) en su ordenador. El uso de
archivos de configuración le permite mantener diversas
configuraciones de control diferentes para usar en diferentes
situaciones.

Para administrar los archivos de configuración, navegue
hasta la sección Settings (Ajustes) del panel de control de Rane,
debajo de la pestaña General.
 •   Load (Cargar): Seleccione esta opción para localizar y cargar un archivo de configuración de
     Seventy-Two MKII (.r72) en su ordenador al panel de control.
 •   Save (Guardar): Seleccione esta opción para guardar los ajustes del mezclador en su
     ordenador como un archivo de configuración de Seventy-Two MKII (.r72).


También puede utilizar Rane Control Panel para calibrar los
faders de su Seventy-Two MKII:
1. Asegúrese de que su Seventy-Two MKII esté encendido y
   conectado a un puerto disponible en su ordenador utilizando
   un cable USB.
2. Abra Rane Control Panel.
3. Acceda a File > Fader Calibration (Archivo > Calibración de
   fader).
4. Siga las instrucciones en pantalla para seleccionar el fader y
   calibrarlo. Se le notificará una vez que la calibración haya
   sido exitosa.




                                                                                                    41
Guide d'utilisation (Français)
Présentation
Merci d’avoir fait l’acquisition du Seventy-Two MKII. Chez Rane DJ, nous savons à quel point
la musique est importante pour vous. C’est pourquoi nous concevons nos produits avec une
seule chose en tête — faire de votre performance la meilleure qui soit.



Contenu de la boîte

Seventy-Two MKII
Câble d'alimentation
2 vinyles de contrôle Serato NoiseMap™
2 CD de contrôle Serato NoiseMap™
Carte de téléchargement avec numéro de série pour le logiciel Serato Pitch 'n Time
2 câbles USB
Autocollants Rane
Guide d'utilisation
Consignes de sécurité et informations concernant la garantie



Assistance

Pour les toutes dernières informations concernant la documentation, les spécifications techniques,
la configuration requise, la compatibilité et l’enregistrement du produit, veuillez visiter dj.rane.com.
Pour de l’assistance supplémentaire, veuillez visiter dj.rane.com/support.




42
Démarrage
Les éléments qui ne figurent pas dans Présentation > Contenu de la boîte sont vendus séparément.
1.   Visitez le site dj.rane.com et ouvrez une session. (Si c'est votre premier produit Rane, vous devez
     d’abord créer un compte.) À partir de votre compte, enregistrez la Seventy-Two MKII et téléchargez le
     logiciel Rane Control Panel.
     Pour les utilisateurs Windows : Le logiciel Rane Control Panel contient des pilotes requis pour Windows.
2.   IMPORTANT : De temps à autre, il est possible que nous mettions à jour le progiciel de la Seventy-Two
     MKII afin d’améliorer sa performance. Veuillez visiter le site dj.rane.com afin de vérifier s’il y a des
     mises à jour disponibles pour le progiciel, en particulier après une mise à jour de logiciel, car les mises
     à jour de progiciel peuvent être destinées à supporter les nouvelles fonctionnalités du logiciel).
3.   Visitez le site serato.com et téléchargez la toute dernière version du logiciel Serato DJ Pro.
4.   En utilisant des câbles USB, reliez les ports USB de la Rane Twelve (si utilisée) ou d'autres contrôleurs
     MIDI USB aux ports USB Twelve/Controller de la Seventy-Two MKII.
5.   Reliez les sources d'entrée audio (microphones, platines vinyle, etc.) à la Seventy-Two MKII.
6.   Reliez les sources de sortie audio (casques, amplificateurs de puissance, enceintes, etc.) à la Seventy-
     Two MKII.
7.   Branchez tous les appareils à des prises secteurs, puis les mettre sous tension dans l’ordre approprié :
       • Lors de la mise en marche, commencez par allumer (1) les sources d’entrée, (2) la Seventy-Two
          MKII, puis (3) les appareils de sortie.
       • Pour mettre hors tension, commencez par fermer (1) les appareils de sortie, (2) la Seventy-Two
          MKII, puis (3) les sources d’entrée.
8.   En utilisant un câble USB, reliez le port USB de la Seventy-Two MKII au port de votre ordinateur. Lancez le
     logiciel Serato DJ Pro, puis laissez libre cours à votre imagination ! Pour plus d'informations sur l'utilisation
     de Serato DJ Pro avec la Seventy-Two MKII, visitez le site support.serato.com et sélectionnez Rane
     Seventy-Two MKII.

                               Ordinateur                      Microphone




Rane Twelve                                                                                            Rane Twelve
(ou un autre contrôleur MIDI USB)                                                 (ou un autre contrôleur MIDI USB)




        Haut-parleurs actives             Enceintes cabine                     Platine disque          Lecteur
                                                                                                      multimédia
                                                                                                                   43
Caractéristiques

Panneau supérieur



      36        7    5                        5        7        31
                     6        3         4     6
      37        8                                      8
 38                  18                       18                32
 39             9                                      9
      34
                    19             1              19            33
 35         10                                         10
                     20                       20
      22    11       21                       21       11       25

      23                           16                           26
            12           17                  17        12
 24                                                                  27
 13                                                                  13

                                   2
                    14                            14


           15                 28        28                 15


                         29                  29



                                   30


44
1.    Écran tactile : Cet écran tactile multipoint couleur affiche les informations pertinentes aux opérations
      en cours de la Seventy-Two MKII. Touchez l'écran et utilisez les commandes matérielles pour contrôler
      l’interface. Veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Écran tactile afin d’en savoir plus.
2.    Shift : Maintenir cette touche enfoncée permet d’accéder aux fonctions secondaires des autres
      commandes de la Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    View/Menu : Cette touche permet de basculer entre les modes Library View et Waveform. Veuillez
      consulter la section Fonctionnement > Écran tactile afin d’en savoir plus.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant sur cette touche, ou maintenir cette touche
      pendant 4 secondes, permet d’afficher le menu principal de la Seventy-Two MKII.
4.    Effects/Tap : Cette touche permet de lancer immédiatement l’affichage des effets.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant sur cette touche à plusieur reprises au rythme
      désiré permet de régler la vitesse des effets du canal.
5.    Back : Cette touche permet de revenir à la fenêtre précédente. En mode Library View, cette touche
      permet d’accéder aux niveaux précédents de la bibliothèque.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant sur cette touche permet d’afficher la fenêtre de
      préparation dans Serato DJ Pro.
6.    Load/Scroll : Tourner ce bouton permet de parcourir les listes et l’enfoncer permet de sélectionner un des
      items ou de charger la piste sélectionnée sur le module. En mode Waveform View, toucher ce bouton
      permet de basculer en mode Library View.
      Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant sur cette touche permet de charger la piste
      sélectionnée dans la fenêtre de préparation.
      Astuce : Appuyer deux fois rapidement permet de charger la même piste sur les deux modules
      (« double instantané »).
7.    Sélecteur de source : Ce bouton permet de sélectionner la source audio pour le canal : USB A ou B
      (une piste qui joue sur ce niveau dans le logiciel), PH/CD (un appareil relié à l'entrée PH/CD du module
      sur le panneau arrière) ou Aux (un appareil relié à l'entrée Aux du module sur le panneau arrière).
      Remarque : Si vous sélectionnez PH/CD, réglez les sélecteurs PH/CD sur le panneau arrière
      correctement.
      Remarque : Les commandes d’un module transmettent des données MIDI seulement lorsque son
      sélecteur de source est réglé sur USB A ou B.
8.    Level : Ce bouton permet de définir le niveau de pré-égalisation pré-atténuation du canal
      correspondant. Le vumètre à côté du bouton indique le niveau du signal. Diminuez le réglage s’il
      atteint la partie rouge (écrêtage).
9.    High : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des hautes fréquences du Remarque : Toutes les
      module.                                                               commandes d’égalisation
10.   Mid : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des moyennes fréquences peuvent être coupées.
      du module.
11.   Low : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des basses fréquences du module.
12.   LP/HP : Ce bouton permet de régler le filtre appliqué au canal. Tourner le bouton vers la gauche
      permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-bas et tourner le bouton vers la droite permet d’appliquer un filtre
      passe-haut. Régler ce bouton sur la position centrale (12 h) permet de désactiver les filtres.
      Astuce : Par défaut, les filtres coupent entièrement les sons, mais vous pouvez régler les fréquences de
      coupure en cliquant sur Main Menu > Mixer Settings > Filter Setup, puis en modifiant les valeurs des
      paramètres Low Pass Min et High Pass Max.
13.   Touches des modes de fonctionnement des pads : Ces touches permettent d’accéder au mode de
      fonctionnement des pads correspondant. Appuyer une fois permet d’accéder au mode de
      fonctionnement principal (indiqué au-dessus de la touche), et appuyer une seconde fois permet
      d’accéder au mode de fonctionnement secondaire (imprimé en dessous). Maintenir la touche Shift
      enfoncée tout en appuyant sur une de ces touches permet d’accéder aux modes de fonctionnement
      personnalisés. Veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Modes de fonctionnement des pads
      afin d’en apprendre plus sur le fonctionnement des pads pour chaque mode.
14.   Pads : Ces pads ont différentes fonctions selon le mode de fonctionnement sélectionné et le module
      sélectionné. Utilisez les touches des modes de fonctionnement des pads pour sélectionner un
      mode. Ces pads sont sensibles à la dynamique (en certains modes seulement), robustes et faciles à
      jouer. Veuillez consulter la section Fonctionnement > Modes de fonctionnement des pads afin d’en
      apprendre plus sur le fonctionnement des pads pour chaque mode.

                                                                                                             45
15.   Parameter / : Ces touches permettent d’utiliser les différentes fonctions de chaque mode de
      fonctionnement des pads. Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant sur ces touches
      permet d’accéder aux paramètres secondaires.
16.   Touch FX : Cette touche permet d'activer ou de désactiver la fonction de pavé tactile X/Y sur l’écran
      tactile. Cette fonctionnalité peut être utilisée pour contrôler divers paramètres d’effet. Veuillez
      consulter la section Fonctionnement > Effets afin d’en savoir plus.
17.   Interrupteur Effects : Pousser cet interrupteur vers le haut permet d’activer les effets logiciel et les
      effets internes (Flex FX) de la Seventy-Two MKII ; l’interrupteur demeure verrouillé dans cette position.
      Pousser l’interrupteur vers la position centrale permet de désactiver les effets.
      Pousser et maintenir cet interrupteur vers le bas permet d'activer les effets logiciel et les effets
      internes (Flex FX) de la Seventy-Two MKII momentanément ; l’interrupteur retourne à la position
      centrale.
      Remarque : Les interrupteurs Effect peuvent être enlevés et tournés de 180° selon votre préférence.
18.   Bouton Parameter : Ce bouton permet d'ajuster les différents paramètres d’effet. La fonction du
      bouton Parameter est indiquée à l'écran tactile par une caret blanche pour chaque banque.
19.   FX 1–3 : Ces touches permettent d’activer et de désactiver l’effet logiciel correspondant dans une
      banque de trois effets.
20.   Flex FX : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver les effets internes (Flex FX) de la Seventy-
      Two MKII.
21.   Depth : Ce bouton permet de régler l'équilibre traité/non traité des effets internes (Flex FX) sur ce module.
22.   Sampler Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume de l’échantillonneur logiciel.
23.   Sampler LP/HP : Ce bouton permet de régler le filtre appliqué à l’échantillonneur logiciel. Tourner le
      bouton vers la gauche permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-bas et tourner le bouton vers la droite
      permet d’appliquer un filtre passe-haut. Régler ce bouton sur la position centrale (12 h) permet
      d’obtenir une réponse en fréquence plane (aucun filtre).
24.   Sampler Effects : Cette touche permet d’activer ou de désactiver les effets de l’échantillonneur.
      Remarque : L'échantillonneur doit être sélectionné dans le menu de routage des effets. Veuillez
      consulter la section Effets afin d’en savoir plus.
25.   Cue Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume du canal de pré-écoute.
26.   Cue Mix : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le mix entre le canal de pré-écoute et le mix du programme des
      sorties casque. Lorsqu'il est réglé complètement à gauche, seul le canal de pré-écoute est entendu.
      Lorsqu'il est réglé complètement à droite, seul le mix du programme est entendu.
27.   Split Cue : Lorsque cette touche est enfoncée, l'audio du casque est partagé afin que tous les
      canaux envoyés au canal de pré-écoute soient combinés en mono et transmis au canal gauche et que
      le mix du programme soit combiné en mono et transmis au canal droit. Lorsque cette touche est
      relâchée, l’audio du canal de pré-écoute et du mix du programme sont combinés. Dans les deux cas,
      le bouton Cue Mix permet de contrôler le mélange des deux signaux.
28.   Cue : Cette touche permet d’acheminer le signal pré-atténuation du module au canal de pré-écoute.
      La touche s’allume lorsque cette fonction est activée. Pour pré-écouter simultanément plusieurs
      canaux, appuyez sur les touches Cue des deux modules.
29.   Curseur du canal : Ce bouton permet d'ajuster le volume du module correspondant.
30.   Crossfader : Déplacez ce curseur afin de mélanger les signaux des modules.
31.   Main : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume de sortie des sorties principales. Les vumètres à côté du
      bouton indiquent le niveau du signal. Diminuez le réglage s’il atteint la partie rouge (écrêtage).
32.   Booth : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume de sortie des sorties cabine.
33.   Session Out : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume de sortie des sorties Session.
34.   Session In : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le volume de sortie des entrées Session.
35.   Cue : Cette touche permet d’acheminer le signal des entrées Session au canal de pré-écoute. La
      touche s’allume lorsque cette fonction est activée.
36.   Mic 1 Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le gain de l’entrée Mic 1. Le vumètre à côté du bouton
      indique le niveau du signal. Diminuez le réglage s’il atteint la partie rouge (écrêtage).
37.   Mic 1 Tone : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des basses et hautes fréquences du signal
      provenant de l'entrée Mic 1.

46
38.   Mic 1 On/Duck : Cette touche permet d’activer et de désactiver l'entrée Mic 1 sur le panneau arrière.
      Maintenir cette touche enfoncée pendant 2 secondes permet d’activer la fonction « ducking », ce qui
      réduit le volume de toutes les autres entrées de 10 dB. La touche clignote lorsque cette fonction est
      activée. Appuyer une deuxième fois sur la touche permet de désactiver cette fonction et l’entrée Mic 1.
39.   Mic 1 Echo : Cette touche permet d’activer ou de désactiver l’effet d’écho du signal de l’entrée Mic 1.
      Le bouton Mic 1 Echo sur le panneau avant permet d’ajuster la quantité d’effet.


Panneau arrière

                                                                     8         8
                                  14            13              9        9              11 12
                     2
                                                                                        11 12
                     1           3       3 4 6 5
                                                                10             7
1.    Entrée d'alimentation : Alors que la Seventy-Two MKII est hors tension, utilisez le câble
      d’alimentation fourni pour brancher l’entrée d’alimentation à une prise secteur.
2.    Interrupteur d'alimentation : Cet interrupteur permet de mettre la Seventy-Two MKII sous et hors
      tension. Veillez à mettre la Seventy-Two MKII sous tension uniquement après avoir raccordé tous les
      appareils d'entrée et avant de mettre les amplificateurs et enceintes sous tension. Veillez à mettre les
      amplificateurs et les enceintes hors tension avant de mettre la Seventy-Two MKII hors tension.
3.    Sorties Main (XLR) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes ou un système d’amplification.
      Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est commandé par le bouton Master du panneau supérieur.
4.    Sorties Booth (6,35 mm, TRS) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher des enceintes cabine ou un
      système d’amplification. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est commandé par le bouton Booth du
      panneau supérieur.
5.    Entrées Session (RCA) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher la sortie à niveau ligne d'un appareil à
      niveau ligne comme une autre console de mixage, un lecteur CD, un module de percussion, etc. Le
      signal sera transmis directement au mix du programme. Le niveau du signal de ces sorties est
      commandé par le bouton Session In du panneau supérieur.
6.    Sorties Session (RCA) : Ces sorties permettent de brancher une autre console de mixage, un appareil
      d’enregistrement, etc. Le mix du programme sera transmis à ces sorties. Le niveau du signal de ces
      sorties est commandé par le bouton Session Out du panneau supérieur.
7.    Entrée PH/CD (RCA) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher des sources audio externes comme une
      platine vinyle, un lecteur CD ou un autre appareil à niveau ligne. Le sélecteur PH/CD du module doit
      être réglé en fonction de l’appareil branché et le sélecteur de source doit être réglé sur PH/CD afin
      que le signal du module puisse être joué.
8.    Sélecteur PH/CD : Ce sélecteur permet de sélectionner le niveau du signal approprié selon l’appareil
      branché aux entrées PH/CD du module correspondant. Si vous utilisez des platines vinyle phono,
      réglez le sélecteur sur PH afin d’ajouter plus d’amplification aux signaux phono. Pour brancher un
      appareil à niveau de ligne, comme une platine vinyle à niveau ligne, un lecteur CD ou un
      échantillonneur, réglez-le sur CD.
9.    Phono Grounds : Si vous utilisez des platines vinyle phono avec fil de mise à la terre, veillez à relier le
      fil à ces bornes. S’il y a un ronflement ou du bruit, il se pourrait que vos platines vinyle ne soient pas
      mises à la terre.
      Remarque : Certaines platines vinyle sont dotées d'un fil de mise à la terre intégré à la connexion
      RCA, et donc, n'ont pas besoin d’être reliées à la borne de mise à la terre.
10.   Entrées Aux (RCA) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher des sources audio externe à niveau ligne. Le
      sélecteur de source du module doit être réglé sur Aux afin que le signal du module puisse être joué.

                                                                                                              47
11.   Entrées Mic 1–2 (XLR/6,35 mm, TS) : Ces entrées permettent de brancher un microphone ou un
      appareil à niveau ligne. Les signaux audio mono de ces entrées sont séparés puis acheminés
      directement au mix du programme stéréo et au canal de pré-écoute. Pour une entrée ligne stéréo,
      l'entrée Session doit être utilisée.
12.   Sélecteur Line/Mic : Ce sélecteur doit être réglé selon l’appareil branché aux entrées Mic 1–2. Si
      vous utilisez un microphone, réglez le sélecteur sur Mic. Pour brancher un appareil à niveau de ligne,
      comme un clavier ou un échantillonneur, réglez le sélecteur sur Line.
13.   Ports USB Twelve/Controller (USB de type A) : Ces ports permettent de relier des contrôleurs
      Twelve ou autres contrôleurs MIDI USB standard en utilisant des câbles USB.
      Important : Ne pas brancher de clés USB à ces ports. Changer le réglage du sélecteur de source
      entraîne l’éjection de la clé USB de l’ordinateur et peut endommager le contenu.
14.   Ports USB (USB de type-B) : Ces ports permettent de relier des ordinateurs en utilisant des câbles
      USB. Ces connexions permettent de transmettre et de recevoir de l’audio et des données de
      commande depuis et vers un ordinateur.
      Remarque : Veuillez vous assurer d’avoir téléchargé et installé le logiciel Rane Control Panel à partir
      du site dj.rane.com.


Panneau avant


                                           7          6
                                                                        9
                     2        3                                                  1
                     5        4
                                                                       10
                                                      8
1.    Sorties casque (6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS) : Cette sortie permet de brancher un casque d’écoute
      6,35 mm ou 3,5 mm pour la pré-écoute et le calage.
2.    Mic 2 On : Lorsque cette commande est enfoncé, l’entrée Mic 2 sur le panneau arrière est activée et
      le signal audio est acheminé directement au mix du programme et au mix de pré-écoute. Lorsque
      cette commande est relâchée, l’entrée Mic 2 est désactivée.
3.    Mic 2 Level : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le gain de l’entrée Mic 2.
4.    Mic 2 Tone : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster le réglage des basses et hautes fréquences du signal
      provenant de l'entrée Mic 2.
5.    Mic 1 Echo : Ce bouton permet d’ajuster la quantité d’effet d’écho ajoutée sur le signal de
      l’entrée Mic 1. Appuyer sur la touche Mic 1 Echo sur le panneau supérieur permet d’activer et de
      désactiver cet effet.
6.    Bouton de tension : Ce bouton permet de régler la tension du crossfader. Tourner le bouton vers la
      gauche permet de diminuer la résistance du crossfader afin d’obtenir une sensation plus souple et
      tourner le bouton vers la droite permet d’augmenter la résistance afin d’obtenir une sensation plus dure.
7.    Contour Controls : Ce bouton permet de régler l'intensité du fondu du crossfader. Tourner dans le
      sens antihoraire permet d’obtenir un fondu progressif (mixage) et tourner dans le sens horaire permet
      d’obtenir une coupure nette (scratch). La position centrale est typiquement utilisée dans les clubs.
8.    Reverse : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur On, la direction (« polarité ») du curseur correspondant
      est inversée. Pour utiliser la polarité classique, réglez-le sur Off.
9.    Deck Swap : Lorsque ce sélecteur est réglé sur On, les curseurs des canaux gauche et droit sont
      inversés. Pour utiliser la configuration classique, réglez-le sur Off.
10.   Entrée Footswitch (6,35 mm, TRS) : Cette entrée permet de relier un commutateur au pied afin
      d’activer et de désactiver les effets. Vous pouvez également y assigner d’autres fonctions. Cette entrée
      prend en charge un commutateur au pied à trois positions avec contact de commutation passif.

48
Fonctionnement

Écran tactile
Pour basculer entre les modes d’affichages Waveform et Library, appuyez sur la touche View/Menu.

Mode Waveform View
                                                                                               1
En mode Waveform View, la forme d’onde des pistes est affichée à la
verticale, avec le canal 1 à gauche et le canal 2 à droite. La grande forme     2
d'onde représente une section de la piste sélectionnée. La forme d'onde
plus petite représente toute la piste.                                          3
1.   Durée : Affiche la durée restante de la piste en cours.
2.   Tonalité/Verrouillage tonale : Maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée
     tout en tapant sur cette icône permet de basculer entre l’affichage de       4
     la tonalité et du verrouillage tonal. Lorsque tonalité est sélectionnée, la
     tonalité de la piste en cours est affichée, et vous pouvez taper afin
     d’activer ou désactiver la fonction de synchronisation tonale. Lors le
     verrouillage tonal est sélectionné, l’icône serrure (ou l’icône Serato       5
     Pitch 'n Time si installé) est affichée, et vous pouvez taper afin d’activer
     ou désactiver la fonction de verrouillage tonal. Lorsqu’une option est
     activée, le champ est en surbrillance.
3.   Vue d’ensemble : La forme d'onde plus petite représente une vue
                                                                                  6
     d’ensemble de toute la piste. Vous pouvez utiliser votre doigt pour
     balayer la piste durant la lecture. En outre, vous pouvez pincer deux                      7
     doigts pour effectuer un zoom avant sur la plus grande forme d’onde
     et écarter des deux doigts pour effectuer un zoom arrière.
     Remarque : Si l'option Disable Needle Search est désactivée dans
     Serato DJ Pro, vous devrez maintenir la touche Shift pour balayer
     la piste.
4.   Position dans la piste : La position actuelle du curseur de lecture.
5.   Points de repère rapides : Affiche les points de repère rapides par couleur.
6.   Sync : Lorsque Sync est activé, le champ est en surbrillance et les indicateurs de BPM sont bleus.
     Pour activer et désactiver la fonction de synchronisation, maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en
     tapant sur l'icône d’un des canaux.
7.   BPM : Ceci indique le nombre de battements par minute de la piste sélectionnée.
Remarque : Si l’option Load/Scroll Touch est activée en mode Waveform View, toucher le bouton
Load/Scroll permet d’afficher rapidement le mode Library View. Veuillez consulter le Menu principal afin
d’apprendre comment activer et désactiver cette option.

                                                                              Écran tactile avec format
Mode Library View                                                             d’affichage agrandi de la
                                                                                     bibliothèque
En mode Library View, l’écran affiche la bibliothèque de l’ordinateur
connecté. Lorsque la Seventy-Two MKII est reliée à deux ordinateurs,
la bibliothèque de l’ordinateur auxquels les deux modules ont été
assignés lors de la dernière session sera affichée.
Pour changer le format de l’affichage, balayez vers le bas l'icône du
menu déroulant au-dessus de la liste des pistes, puis taper l'icône
pour afficher le format désiré, format simple ou agrandi.
Pour parcourir les pistes, tournez le bouton Load/Scroll.
Pour parcourir rapidement la liste, maintenez la touche Shift
enfoncée puis tourner le bouton Load/Scroll.
Pour ouvrir un crate ou pour charger une piste sur un module,
appuyez sur le bouton Load/Scroll.
Pour accéder au menu précédent, appuyez sur la touche Back.



                                                                                                          49
Menu principal
Pour accéder au menu principal, appuyez sur les touches Shift et View/Menu, ou maintenez la
touche View/Menu enfoncée pendant 4 secondes. Le menu principal contient les options suivantes :


Mixer Settings : Cette option permet de modifier les paramètres suivants.
 •   Audio Out : Cette option permet de modifier les paramètres Main Out, Mic 1 Clean Feed et
     Deck Balance.
     Remarque : Lorsque l’option Clean Feed est activée, Mic 1 ne transmet pas de signal audio
     lorsque l'enregistrement est fait à partir de Serato DJ Pro.
 •   Deck Settings : Cette option permet de modifier les paramètres de sensibilité des entrées
     phono 1/2 et de tonalité des crossovers 1/2.
     Remarque : Réglez l’option Phono Sensitivity selon les recommandations du fabricant de
     votre cartouche.
 •   Filter Setup : Cette option permet de modifier le réglage pour Deck 1/2 Resonance, Sampler
     Resonance, la fréquence de coupure minimum (Low Pass Min) et maximum (High Pass Max)
     des boutons de filtre.
 •   Pad Setup : Cette option permet de modifier les paramètres de sensibilité des pads.
 •   Headphone Setup : Cette option permet de modifier les paramètres de tonalité du casque.
 •   Mic 1 Setup : Sélectionnez cette option pour modifier la quantité de rétroaction de l’écho du
     micro (Mic 1 Echo Fdbk), le seuil de la fonction de réduction automatique du gain du micro
     (Mic 1 Duck Thresh) ou la durée de la fonction de réduction automatique du gain du micro
     (Mic 1 Duck Hold).
 •   Touch FX Setup : Cette option permet de modifier le Button Mode, qui détermine la fonction
     de la touche Touch FX. En mode Touch FX, qui est le mode par défaut, appuyer sur la touche
     permet d’afficher la fenêtre Touch FX. La DEL de la touche demeure verte en tout temps. Elle
     est de forte intensité lorsque la fenêtre Touch FX est affichée et de faible intensité lorsque la
     fenêtre est fermée. En Mode Tap, taper la touche permet de régler le tempo de l’effet pour le
     module sélectionné, et maintenir la touche Shift tout en appuyant sur le bouton permet
     d’afficher la fenêtre Touch FX. La DEL de la touche est éteinte, sauf lorsqu’elle est enfoncée.


Flex FX : Cette option permet d'afficher et de modifier les paramètres des effets internes (Flex FX)
de la Seventy-Two MKII.
 •   Beats Mult. : Cette option permet de définir les incréments par lesquels la durée des effets
     Flex peut être modifiée.
     o   En Mode Extended, les effets internes Flex peuvent être réglés sur les battements
         standard de 1/32 à 32, mais également sur les triolets et les pointés.
     o   En mode Simple, le mode par défaut, les effets internes Flex peuvent seulement être réglés
         sur les battements standard (aucun triolet ou pointé).
     o   En mode No Dotted, les effets internes Flex peuvent être réglés sur les battements
         standard et les triolets, mais aucune pointée.
     o   En mode No Triplet, les effets internes Flex peuvent être réglés sur les battements
         standard et les pointés, mais aucun triolet.
 •   FX List : Vous pouvez modifier tout effet répertorié sous l’option Beats Mult..
     o   Pour ajouter ou supprimer un des effets de la liste des favoris, tapez le cercle sur le
         côté droite de l’écran. Lorsque le cercle est vert, l'effet sera inclus dans la liste des effets
         internes (Flex FX) en mode d’affichage des effets. Lorsque le cercle est vide et que le nom
         de l'effet apparaît en gris, l’effet ne sera plus affiché dans la liste des effets.
     o   Pour modifier les paramètres par défaut des effets internes (Flex FX), tapez sur l’icône
         de la clé à molette. Toute modification sera sauvegardée par la console de mixage.

50
Cut-In Adjust : Cette option permet d’accéder au menu de
configuration Cut-In Adjust. Cette option permet de modifier la
course entre la position du début et de fin d’un curseur.
Sélectionnez le curseur que vous désirez modifier, puis
déplacez le curseur à la position désirée et appuyez sur Set
pour sauvegarder le réglage.




Footswitch : Cette option permet d’assigner des fonctions aux Footswitch 1/2/3.
 •   Lorsqu’assignée à MIDI, taper un commutateur au pied permet d’exécute une fonction MIDI
     programmée dans le logiciel Serato.
 •   Lorsqu’assigner à FX 1 Latch ou à FX 2 Latch, taper un commutateur au pied permet de
     verrouiller un effet du module 1 ou du module 2.
 •   Lorsqu’assignée à FX 1 Moment ou à FX 2 Moment, taper un commutateur au pied permet de
     déclencher momentanément les effets du module 1 ou du module 2.
 •   Lorsqu’assignée à Tap, taper un commutateur au pied permet de définir le tempo de l’effet du
     module sélectionné sur l’écran tactile.


Display : Cette option permet d'afficher et de modifier les paramètres de l’écran tactile.
 •   Screen Brightness : Cette option permet régler la luminosité de l’écran.
 •   Scroll Touch : Cette option permet de déterminer si toucher le bouton Load/Scroll permet de
     basculer l’affichage en mode Library View à partir du mode Waveform View.
 •   Pad Mode Display : Cette option permet de déterminer si les fonctions Performance Pad sont
     affichées sur l’écran tactile lorsqu'une touche Pad Mode est enfoncée.
 •   Startup View : Cette option permet de définir l’affichage par défaut de la Seventy-Two MKII
     (Waveform, Library, or Effects) lorsqu’elle est mise sous tension.
     Remarque : La connexion à Serato est nécessaire pour afficher en mode Waveform ou Library
     lors de la mise sous tension, sinon, la Seventy-Two MKII affiche en mode Effects.


Réinitialisation des paramètres par défaut

Pour réinitialiser les paramètres par défaut d’un champ du menu, vous devez d’abord
sélectionner une des options du menu principal. La dernière option de chaque champ du menu est
Restore Defaults. Sélectionnez cette option afin d’afficher une fenêtre contextuelle. Sélectionnez
Restore pour réinitialiser les paramètres par défaut ou Cancel pour revenir en arrière.


Pour réinitialiser les paramètres d’usine de la Seventy-Two MKII pour tous les champs du
menu, vous devez d'abord retourner au menu principal. Faites ensuite glisser un doigt vers le haut
sur l’écran tactile afin d’afficher l’option Factory Reset. Sélectionnez cette option afin d’afficher
une fenêtre contextuelle. Sélectionnez Restore pour réinitialiser tous les paramètres par défaut ou
Cancel pour revenir en arrière.




                                                                                                   51
Effets

Mode Effects View

Appuyer sur la touche Effects/Tap permet d’afficher le mode Effects à partir duquel vous pouvez modifier
les effets pour les deux banques d'effets (A et B) et définir les effets qui seront activés sur chaque module.

Chaque banque d’effets contient jusqu'à 3 effets logiciels, en
plus des effets internes Flex FX, pour un total de 8 effets qui
peuvent être ajoutés et routés au module 1, module 2 et à
l’échantillonneur. Par défaut, les effets sont routés aux
modules 1 et 2.

Pour modifier le routage des effets :
1.   Tapez sur les icônes 1/2/S bleues dans le haut de
     l’écran pour accéder au menu de routage des effets.
2.   Sélectionnez où vous désirez router les effets, puis
     appuyez sur la touche OK pour retourner au menu
     précédent. Les deux banques d’effets peuvent être
     routées aux mêmes modules.

Pour ajouter et utiliser des effets :
1.   Appuyez sur la touche Effects pour accéder au mode
     d’affichage des effets.
2.   Tapez l’écran pour sélectionner l’effet souhaité, puis
     appuyez sur le bouton Parameter pour afficher le mode
     de sélection des effets.
3.   Tournez le bouton Parameter pour faire défiler la liste
     des effets, puis enfoncez-le pour charger l'effet sur cet
     emplacement.
4.   Appuyez sur les touches FX 1–3 ou Flex FX pour activer l’effet dans la chaîne de traitement du signal.
     Les effets sont appliqués dans l'ordre dans la chaîne (FX1 > FX2 > FX3 > Flex FX).
5.   Uilisez les interrupteurs Effects pour ajouter les effets aux modules 1 et 2. Poussez l’interrupteur
     vers le haut pour verrouiller un effet, ou tirez et maintenez l’interrupteur vers le bas pour déclencher
     momentanément un effet.
     Appuyez sur la touche Sampler Effects pour ajouter les effets à l’échantillonneur.

Pour modifier un effet logiciel :
1.   Tapez l’effet sur l’écran.
2.   Tournez le bouton Parameter afin de pouvoir modifier le paramètre sélectionné. Appuyer sur le
     bouton Parameter permet de basculer en mode sélection des effets logiciel.

Pour modifier les effets internes (Flex FX) :
1.   Tapez sur l’effet pour le sélectionner, puis utilisez le bouton Parameter pour le modifier. Double-
     tapez l'effet désiré pour modifier les paramètres Flex FX par défaut. Toute modification sera
     sauvegardée par console de mixage.
2.   Pour modifier la durée de l’effet, tapez sur l’option et tournez le bouton Parameter.
     Remarque : Les modifications de la durée des effets sont appliquées à la banque. Pour les effets
     Beat Breaker et Reverb Flex FX, le paramètre réglable n'est pas la durée, mais le numéro
     d’enchaînement et le pourcentage d’affaiblissement de l’effet.

     Astuce : Après avoir sélectionné le numéro d’enchaînement Beat Breaker, maintenez la touche Shift
     enfoncée et appuyez sur le bouton Parameter pour modifier l’enchaînement. Tournez et appuyez sur
     le bouton Parameter pour augmenter ou diminuer les blocs de l’enchaînement. Pour quitter le mode
     de modification, appuyez de nouveau sur la touche Shift et sur le bouton Parameter. Veuillez noter
     que seuls les enchaînements 11-16 seront sauvegardés à la console de mixage lors de la mise hors
     tension.

52
Touch FX

Appuyer sur la touche Touch FX permet d’afficher la fenêtre Touch FX à partir de laquelle vous
pouvez activer et manipuler les effets du module 1 et 2 en touchant l’écran.


Pour sélectionner le module auquel sera appliqué l’effet Touch FX, tapez la flèche Deck
correspondante. Les boutons FX pour les effets routés à ce module seront en surbrillance.


Pour activer et manipuler les effets routés à ce module, faites glisser votre doigt horizontalement
à travers l'écran. Glisser sur l'axe Y ajoute un filtre (Filter) passe-haut (haut) ou passe-bas (bas).
Glisser de gauche à droite sur l'axe X augmente le paramètre Time pour les effets internes Flex
activés. Le paramètre Time pour l’effet Flex est affiché au bas de la fenêtre Touch FX et se met à
jour lorsque vous faites glisser votre doigt vers la gauche/droite sur l'axe X. Lorsque vous retirez le
doigt de l'écran tactile, le filtre se désactive et la synchronisation FX revient au réglage précédent.
Vous pouvez modifier le paramètre Time par défaut à partir de la fenêtre Touch FX en le tapant et
en tournant le bouton Parameter.
Remarque : Pour les effets Beat Breaker et Reverb Flex FX, le paramètre réglable n'est pas la durée,
mais le numéro d’enchaînement et le pourcentage d’affaiblissement de l’effet.

Remarque : La modification des effets Beat Breaker peut se faire à partir de la fenêtre Touch FX en
tapant sur le numéro de l’enchaînement puis en appuyant sur la touche Shift puis sur le bouton
Parameter. Veuillez consulter la section Effets > Mode Effects View afin d’en savoir plus.


Pour modifier l’effet Flex activé sur le module, tapez sur le nom de l’effet, appuyez sur le bouton
Parameter pour entrer en mode de sélection de l’effet, puis tournez le bouton Parameter pour faire
défiler les effets. Appuyez de nouveau sur le bouton Parameter afin de quitter le mode de sélection
de l’effet.




                                                                                                    53
Modes de fonctionnement des pads

Cette section explique les différents modes de
fonctionnement des pads. Chaque module dispose de
huit pads qui peuvent être en mode différent. Appuyez
sur une des touches des modes de fonctionnement                    1       2       3       4
des pads afin de faire basculer les pads du module au
mode correspondant. Chaque touche des modes de
fonctionnement des pads bascule entre deux modes                   5       6       7       8
chaque fois qu’elle est enfoncée.
Astuce : Pour chaque mode de fonctionnement,
maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant
sur une des touches des modes de fonctionnement
des pads permet d’accéder à des modes de
fonctionnement supplémentaires ou personnalisés.



Lorsque l’option Pad Mode Display est activée, appuyer sur une des
touches Pad Mode permet d’afficher la fonction de chaque touche
Performance Pad selon le mode sélectionné. Cette fenêtre s’affiche au
bas de l’écran tactile en mode Waveform View, Effects View ou lorsque
la fenêtre Touch FX est affichée. Tapez n'importe où dans cette fenêtre
pour la conserver sur l'écran tactile, ou elle disparaîtra après 5
secondes. Veuillez consulter la section Menu principal afin d’apprendre
comment activer et désactiver cette option.




Mode de programmation de points de repère rapide

En mode de programmation de points de repère rapide, chaque pad peut assigner un point de
repère rapide ou retourner la piste à ce point de repère.
Pour accéder au mode de programmation de points de repère rapide, appuyez sur la touche
Cue/Pitch Play afin qu’elle devienne blanc.
Pour assigner un point de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad éteint lorsque le curseur atteint
l’endroit désiré sur la piste. Le pad s'allume lorsqu’il est assigné à point de repère rapide (avec la
couleur correspondante, lorsque disponible).
Pour sauter à un point de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad allumé.
Pour supprimer un point de repère rapide, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée tout en appuyant
sur le pad correspondant.




54
Mode Pitch Play
                                                                      Plage vers le haut
En mode Pitch Play, chaque pad joue la piste à partir
d'un point de repère rapide avec une transposition       +4 Demi-     +5 Demi-   +6 Demi-    +7 Demi-
différente (réglable en demi-tons). Le logiciel Serato     tons         tons       tons        tons
Pitch ‘n Time DJ Expansion Pack doit être installé
afin d’utiliser ce mode. Veuillez consulter la section
Mode de programmation de points de repère                    0
                                                         (Hauteur     +1 Demi-   +2 Demi-    +3 Demi-
rapide afin d’en savoir plus.
                                                          tonale         ton       tons        tons
Remarque : Une carte de téléchargement avec              originale)
numéro de série pour le logiciel Serato Pitch 'n Time
est fournie avec la Seventy-Two MKII.                                  Plage moyenne

Pour accéder au mode Pitch Play, appuyez sur la              0
                                                         (Hauteur     +1 Demi-    +2 Demi-   +3 Demi-
touche Cue/Pitch Play afin qu’elle devienne verte.        tonale         ton        tons       tons
                                                         originale)
Pour sélectionner un point de repère rapide,
appuyez sur la touche Shift et un sur pad allumé à
faible intensité.                                        -4 Demi-     -3 Demi-    -2 Demi-      -1
                                                           tons         tons        tons     semitone
Pour sélectionner la plage des transpositions
utilisée par les pads, utilisez les touches Parameter
/ (consultez les diagrammes ci-contre).
                                                                      Plage vers le bas
Pour augmenter ou baisser la tonalité de la piste
sélectionnée, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée                                                0
et appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /.            -3 Demi-     -2 Demi-    -1 Demi-   (Hauteur
                                                           tons         tons         ton      tonale
Pour faire la lecture de la piste à partir d’un point                                        originale)
de repère rapide, appuyez sur un pad allumé.
Chaque pad correspond à une transposition spécifique
                                                         -7 Demi-     -6 Demi-    -5 Demi-   -4 Demi-
(en demi-tons), selon la plage de transposition            tons         tons        tons       tons
sélectionnée (consultez les diagrammes ci-contre). Le
pad sans transposition (hauteur tonale originale) sera
allumé et blanc.


Bouclage automatique

En mode bouclage automatique, chaque pad active ou désactive une boucle automatique d'une
durée différente. La grille de bouclage du logiciel détermine la durée de la boucle.
Pour accéder au mode bouclage automatique, appuyez sur la touche Auto Loop/Man Loop afin
qu’elle devienne bleu foncé.

Pour modifier quelles huit durées de boucles automatiques sont affichées (dans le logiciel),
appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /. La disposition des pads changera en conséquence.
Pour faire avancer ou reculer le bouclage automatique, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et
appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /.




                                                                                                     55
Bouclage manuel

En mode bouclage manuel, chaque pad retourne la 1                   2            3          4
piste à une boucle que vous avez créée et
sauvegardée au préalable. Les configurations des Boucle 1            Boucle 2    Boucle 3       Boucle 4
pads pour les deux banques sont identiques.
Pour accéder au mode bouclage manuel, appuyez 5                     6            7          8
sur la touche Auto Loop/Man Loop afin qu’elle Départ de                           Activer /
                                                                     Sortie de
devienne verte.                                                                  désactiver Rebouclage
                                              la boucle              la boucle
                                                                                   boucle
Pour créer une boucle, appuyez sur le pad 5 pour
définir le point de départ de boucle, puis appuyez sur
le pad 6 pour définir le point de sortie de boucle et
pour activer la boucle.
Pour sauvegarder une boucle, appuyez sur un pad éteint dans la rangée du haut (Pads 1–4) alors
que la boucle est activée. Vous pouvez le faire indépendamment de la façon dont la boucle a été
créée (mode bouclage automatique, bouclage manuel, etc.).
Pour activer ou désactiver une boucle sauvegardée, appuyez sur un pad allumé dans la rangée
du haut (Pads 1–4).
Pour supprimer une boucle sauvegardée, appuyez sur la touche Shift et sur un pad allumé dans
la rangée du haut (Pads 1–4).
Pour activer ou désactiver la dernière boucle activée, appuyez sur le pad 7.
Pour réactiver immédiatement la dernière boucle activée (rebouclage), appuyez sur le pad 8.
Pour réduire de moitié ou doubler la durée d'une boucle, appuyez sur l’une des touches
Parameter /.
Pour faire avancer ou reculer une boucle, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et appuyez sur une des
touches Parameter /.


Bouclage manuel 2

Pour accéder au mode bouclage manuel 2, maintenir la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur la
touche Auto Loop / Man Loop (2) afin qu’elle devienne jaune. En ce mode, les pads 1-4
permettent d’activer et de désactiver les boucles 5-8.


Roulement de boucle
En mode roulement de boucle, chaque pad déclenche un roulement de boucle momentanée.
Lorsque le pad est relâché, le roulement de boucle est désactivé et la lecture normale de la piste
reprend à partir de l’emplacement où elle serait si vous n’aviez pas activé le roulement de boucle (c.-
à-d., comme si la lecture n’avait jamais été interrompue).
Remarque : Veuillez désactiver l’option Show Beat Jump Controls dans le menu Setup de Serato
afin d’afficher les 8 roulements de boucle en même temps. Vous pouvez également afficher et
modifier la durée des roulements de boucle dans le logiciel.
Pour accéder au mode de roulement de boucle, appuyez sur la touche Roll/Pad FX afin qu’elle
devienne turquoise.
Pour déclencher un roulement de boucle, maintenez un des pads enfoncé.
Pour modifier quelles huit durées de boucles automatiques sont affichées (dans le logiciel),
appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /. La disposition des pads changera en conséquence.
Pour décaler le roulement de boucle vers l’arrière ou l’avant, maintenez la touche Shift
enfoncée et appuyez sur une des touches Parameter /.


56
Pad FX
En mode Pad FX, les pads sélectionnent et activent 1                2            3            4
les effets. Les pads de la rangée du haut               Vinyl
sélectionnent le type d'effet, les pads de la rangée du            Backspin          Gate         Echo
                                                        Brake
bas déclenchent et contrôlent la durée de l'effet.

Pour accéder au mode Pad FX, appuyez sur la 5                      6             7            8
touche Roll/Pad FX afin qu’elle devienne jaune.
                                                          Size 1        Size 2       Size 3       Size 4
Pour sélectionner l'effet Vinyle Brake, appuyez sur le
pad 1. Lorsque l'effet Vinyle Brake est déclenché par
un des pads de la rangée du bas, l'audio ralentit et se
fond dans un silence, selon la durée sélectionnée de
l’effet, comme si le plateau phono s'était arrêté.
Pour sélectionner l'effet Backspin, appuyez sur le pad 2. Lorsque l'effet Backspin est déclenché
par un des pads de la rangée du bas, l'audio joue à l’envers et la vitesse augmente comme si la
rotation d’un plateau phono était inversée, puis se fond dans un silence, selon la durée sélectionnée.

Pour sélectionner l'effet Gate, appuyez sur le pad 3. Lorsque l'effet Gate est déclenché par un des
pads de la rangée du bas, un effet de gate basé sur la durée est ajouté à l'audio selon la durée
sélectionnée.

Pour sélectionner l'effet Echo, appuyez sur le pad 4. Lorsque l'effet Echo est déclenché par un
des pads de la rangée du bas, un effet d’écho est ajouté à l’audio, puis se fond dans un silence,
selon la durée sélectionnée.
Remarque : L'effet d'écho peut être combiné avec d'autres effets. Tous les autres effets ne peuvent
être utilisés qu’un à la fois.

Pour déclencher l'effet sélectionné, appuyez sur un des pads 5-8. Chaque pad permet d’activer
l’effet immédiatement avec une durée définie, en commençant avec le pad 5 dont la durée est plus
courte, en augmentant jusqu’au pad 8 dont la durée est la plus longue. Lorsqu’un effet est
déclenché, le pad sélectionné clignote.
Remarque : Sélectionner un nouveau mode de fonctionnement des pads désactive tous les effets
activés pour ce module.


Échantillonneur

En mode échantillonneur, les pads commandent l'échantillonneur du logiciel. Les pads déclenchent
chacun un échantillon avec un volume défini (vous pouvez assigner l’échantillon et définir son
volume dans le logiciel).
Pour accéder au mode échantillonneur, appuyez sur la touche Sampler/Fader FX afin qu’elle
devienne violette.
Pour assigner un échantillon, mettez d'abord en surbrillance l'échantillon désiré dans votre
bibliothèque. Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyer sur un pad correspondant à un des
emplacements pour échantillon vide. Le volume de l’emplacement d’échantillon peut être modifié
dans Serato.
Pour jouer un échantillon, appuyez sur un pad allumé. Le pad clignotera durant la lecture de
l’échantillon.
Pour interrompre un échantillon, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez sur le pad
lorsque l’échantillon joue.
Pour faire défiler les banques d’échantillons, appuyez sur les touches Parameter /.
Pour faire défiler les sorties de l’échantillonneur, appuyez sur la touche Shift et sur les touches
Parameter /.

                                                                                                           57
Fader FX
En mode Fader FX, les pads peuvent désactiver et 1                 2             3              4
réactiver le signal audio du module de la même 1-Click                 2-Click       3-Click        4-Click
manière qu’un crossfader. Un « clic » est un             Flare          Flare         Flare          Flare
mouvement du crossfader qui se déplace vers un
module (« ouvert ») et puis ensuite que se déplace du
                                                      5            6             7              8
module (« fermé »). Les DJ utilisent les clics dans                  2-to-1
                                                        Trans-
différents   modèles     rythmiques     (souvent   en              Alternator    Tri-forms            Uzi
                                                       formers
conjonction avec le scratch) afin de créer divers                     Baby
effets.

Pour accéder au mode Fader FX, appuyez sur la
touche Sampler/Fader FX afin qu’elle devienne
verte.
Pour déclencher un effet de curseur, appuyez sur un des pads 1-8.
Pour inverser un effet, appuyez sur la touche Shift et sur un des pads 1-8.


Flip
Si vous avez acheté le Serato Flip Expansion Pack, 1               2             3              4
vous pouvez accéder à la fonction Flip en maintenant
la touche Shift enfoncée et en appuyant sur la      Flip 1             Flip 2        Flip 3         Flip 4
touche Sampler/Fader FX (4). Si vous n'avez pas
acheté le Serato Flip Expansion Pack, cette fonction
est disponible comme mode de fonctionnement des 5                  6             7              8
pads personnalisé.                                                                    Pas de         Pas de
                                                     Flip 5             Flip 6
                                                                                     fonction       fonction
En ce mode, les pads éteints n'ont pas de Flip qui
leur est assigné; les pads bleus ont un Flip qui leur
est assigné, mais qui n’est pas en cours de lecture;
les pads orange ont un Flip qui leur est assigné et qui
est en cours de lecture.

Pour assigner un Flip à un pad, appuyez sur un pad éteint (1-6).
Pour faire la lecture d’un Flip assigné, appuyez sur un pad bleu (1-6).
Pour interrompre immédiatement la lecture d’un Flip, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis
appuyez sur le pad orange correspondant (1-6).
Pour lancer l’enregistrement d’un Flip, appuyez sur la touche Parameter .
Pour revenir au début du Flip sélectionné, appuyez sur la touche Parameter .
Pour activer la boucle de l’emplacement Flip sélectionné, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée
puis appuyez sur la touche Parameter .

Pour activer et désactiver l’emplacement Flip, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis appuyez
sur la touche Parameter .




58
Slicer

Important : Un Beatgrid pour la piste doit avoir été configuré afin que ce mode fonctionne.
En mode Slicer, les huit pads représentent huit 1                   2          3             4
battements séquentiels ou « tranches » dans le Tranche              Tranche        Tranche       Tranche
Beatgrid. La tranche en cours de lecture est         1                 2              3             4
représentée par le pad qui est allumé ; la lumière
parcourra les pads au fur et à mesure que les huit
tranches de la phase sont jouées. Vous pouvez 5                     6          7             8
appuyer sur un pad pour faire jouer la tranche Tranche              Tranche        Tranche       Tranche
correspondante. Lorsque le pad est relâché, la       5                 6              7             8
lecture normale de la piste est relancée à partir de
l’emplacement où elle serait si vous ne l’aviez pas
enfoncé (c.-à-d., comme si la lecture n’avait jamais
été interrompue).

Pour accéder au mode Slicer, appuyez sur la touche Slicer/Transport afin qu’elle devienne rouge.
Le module quitte le mode Slicer si vous chargez une autre piste au module ou activez le mode Grid
Edit.
Pour activer une tranche, appuyez sur le pad correspondant.

Pour augmenter ou diminuer la taille de quantification, appuyez sur les touches Parameter /.
Pour augmenter ou de diminuer la durée des tranches, maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée puis
appuyez sur les touches Parameter /.


Commandes de lecture
En mode commandes de lecture, les pads
correspondent aux différentes commandes de lecture.       Hauteur   Hauteur    Curseur de     Curseur de
Le logiciel bascule automatiquement en mode interne        tonale    tonale    la hauteur     la hauteur
                                                              -        +        tonale -       tonale +
lorsque ce mode est activé (si vous utilisez un
contrôleur Twelve avec la Seventy-Two MKII, le logiciel
demeura toujours en mode interne).
                                                          Keylock
                                                                        Sync        Cue           
Pour accéder au mode commandes de lecture,                INT/REL
appuyez sur la touche Slicer/Transport afin qu’elle
devienne verte.
Pour baisser la tonalité temporairement, appuyez sur le Pad 1.

Pour augmenter la tonalité temporairement, appuyez sur le Pad 2.
Pour déplacer le curseur de la hauteur tonale vers le bas, appuyez sur le Pad 3.
Pour déplacer le curseur de la hauteur tonale vers le haut, appuyez sur le Pad 4.
Pour activer ou désactiver le verrouillage tonal, appuyez sur le pad 5.
Pour basculer entre le mode interne (INT) et le mode relatif (REL), appuyez sur la touche Shift et
sur le pad 5. (Basculer en mode relatif vous permet de reprendre la commande de la lecture avec un
vinyle ou CD de contrôle.)

Pour activer la synchronisation, appuyez sur le pad 6. Maintenez la touche Shift et le pad 6
enfoncée pour désactiver la synchronisation. Pour sauter à un point de repère, appuyez sur le
pad 7.
Pour lancer ou interrompre la lecture d’une piste, appuyez sur le pad 8.


                                                                                                       59
Slicer Loop

Maintenez la touche Shift enfoncée et appuyez sur la touche Slicer/Transport (5) afin d'accéder
au mode Slicer Loop. Les pads se comportent de manière identique au mode Slicer, sauf que la
phrase de huit tranches sera bouclée au lieu de poursuivre la lecture de la piste.


Ensembles de pads personnalisés

En plus des modes de fonctionnement des pads standard, vous pouvez créer jusqu'à 3 ensembles
de pads personnalisés en utilisant la fonction de mappage MIDI de Serato DJ Pro.

Pour créer un ensemble de pads personnalisé :
1.   Maintenez la touche Shift et appuyez sur la touche Cue / Pitch Play (1), Roll / Pad FX (3)
     ou Sampler / Fader FX (4).
     Remarque : Si vous avez acheté le Serato Flip Expansion Pack, maintenir la touche Shift et
     appuyer sur la touche Sampler / Fader FX (4) vous permet d’accéder aux commandes Flip,
     non pas à un ensemble de pads personnalisé.

2.   Dans le logiciel Serato DJ Pro, ouvrez le menu Setup et sélectionnez MIDI.
3.   Sélectionnez Seventy-Two MKII et assurez-vous que l’option Allow Serato DJ Hardware
     Remapping est activée. Fermez la fenêtre Setup.
4.   Dans la fenêtre principale de Serato DJ Pro, cliquez sur le bouton MIDI dans le haut de l'écran
     pour commencer le mappage.
5.   Cliquez sur une des fonctionnalités de Serato DJ Pro, puis toucher ou déplacer une commande
     sur votre matériel afin de mapper la fonctionnalité à cette commande.
Pour de plus amples informations sur le mappage MIDI, veuillez consulter le guide d’utilisation de
Serato DJ Pro.




60
Curseurs

Les curseurs des canaux de la Seventy-Two MKII sont des curseurs MAG FOUR sans contact avec
tension réglable.

Pour régler la tension des curseurs des canaux de la Seventy-           Plaque de curseurs de
Two MKII :                                                                panneau supérieur
1.   Assurez-vous que l’appareil est hors tension et que le câble
     d’alimentation n’est plus branché à une prise secteur.
2.   En utilisant un tournevis, retirez les vis du bas du panneau
     supérieur où se trouvent les curseurs (consultez l'image).

     Remarque : Les boutons des curseurs doivent être retirés
     avant de pouvoir enlever la façade.
3.   À l’aide du tournevis, ajustez la vis de tension de chaque
     curseur selon votre préférence.                                 Vue de dessus de curseur
                                                                     MAG FOUR


                                                   Vis de tension




Logiciel Control Panel

Le logiciel Rane Control Panel vous permet de modifier les
paramètres de la console de mixage Seventy-Two MKII et de
sauvegarder ces paramètres dans un fichier (.r72) sur votre
ordinateur. L'utilisation de fichiers de paramètres vous permet
d’utiliser différentes configurations pour différentes situations.

Pour gérer les fichiers de paramètres, ouvrez la section
Settings du logiciel Rane Control Panel, sous l’onglet General.

 •   Load : Cette option permet de trouver les fichiers de
     paramètres (.r72) de la Seventy-Two MKII sur votre
     ordinateur et de les et de charger dans le Control Panel.

 •   Save : Cette option permet de sauvegarder les paramètres de la console de mixage comme un
     fichier de paramètres Seventy-Two MKII (.r72).


Vous pouvez également utiliser le logiciel Rane Control Panel
pour étalonner les curseurs de la Seventy-Two MKII :
1. Assurez-vous que la Seventy-Two MKII est sous tension et
   reliée par câble USB à un port USB de votre ordinateur.
2. Lancez le logiciel Rane Control Panel.
3. Cliquez sur File > Fader Calibration.
4. Suivez ensuite les instructions à l’écran pour sélectionner le
   curseur et l’étalonner. Un message s’affiche lorsque
   l'étalonnage est réussi.




                                                                                                61
Guida per l'uso (Italiano)
Introduzione
Grazie per aver acquistato il Seventy-Two MKII. Noi di Rane DJ sappiamo che per te la musica
è una cosa seria. Ecco perché progettiamo i nostri dispositivi con un unico obiettivo in mente:
rendere le tue prestazioni le migliori possibili.


Contenuti della confezione

Seventy-Two MKII
Cavo di alimentazione
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Controllo dischi in vinile
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Controllo CD
Serato Pitch 'n Time Scarica la scheda con numero di serie
(2) Cavi USB
Adesivi Rane
Guida per l'uso
Istruzioni di sicurezza e garanzia



Assistenza

Per le ultime informazioni in merito a questo prodotto (documentazione, specifiche tecniche,
requisiti di sistema, informazioni sulla compatibilità, ecc.) e per effettuarne la registrazione,
recarsi alla pagina dj.rane.com.
Per ulteriore assistenza sul prodotto, recarsi alla pagina dj.rane.com/support.




62
Configurazione
Elementi non elencati sotto Introduzione > Contenuti della confezione sono venduti separatamente.

1.   Recarsi alla pagina dj.rane.com ed effettuare il login al proprio account. (Creare un account se si tratta
     del proprio primo prodotto Rane.) Nell’account, registrare il Seventy-Two MKII e scaricare il Rane
     Control Panel.
     Solo utenti Windows: il pannello di controllo Rane contiene i driver richiesti per Windows.
2.   IMPORTANTE: di tanto in tanto, potremo aggiornare il firmware del Seventy-Two MKII per migliorarne
     le prestazioni. Recarsi alla pagina dj.rane.com per verificare l'eventuale presenza di aggiornamenti del
     firmware disponibili, soprattutto dopo l'eventuale aggiornamento del software (gli aggiornamenti del
     firmware possono riguardare nuove funzioni del software).
3.   Scaricare e installare l’ultima versione di Serato DJ Pro da serato.com.
4.   Servendosi di cavi USB, collegare le porte USB del RaneTwelve (se in uso) o di altri controller MIDI USB
     alle porte USB Twelve/Controller sul Seventy-Two MKII.
5.   Collegare fonti di ingresso audio (microfoni, giradischi, ecc.) al Seventy-Two MKII.
6.   Collegare dispositivi di uscita audio (cuffie, amplificatori, altoparlanti, ecc.) al Seventy-Two MKII.
7.   Collegare tutti i dispositivi a prese elettriche e accenderli nell’ordine corretto:
       • Al momento di avviare una sessione accendere, nell’ordine, (1) sorgenti d’ingresso, (2) Seventy-
           Two MKII, (3) dispositivi di uscita.
       • Al momento di concludere una sessione, invertire questa operazione spegnendo (1) dispositivi di
           uscita, (2) Seventy-Two MKII, (3) sorgenti d’ingresso.
8.   Servendosi di un cavo USB, collegare la porta USB del Seventy-Two MKII al computer. Aprire Serato
     DJ Pro e via! Per maggiori informazioni su come utilizzare il Serato DJ Pro con il Seventy-Two MKII,
     recarsi alla pagina support.serato.com e selezionare Rane Seventy-Two MKII.

                                      Computer                          Microfono




Rane Twelve                                                                                           Rane Twelve
(o altri controller MIDI USB)                                                           (o altri controller MIDI USB)




             Altoparlanti                 Monitor booth                         Giradischi             Lettore
                                                                                                       media

                                                                                                                  63
Caratteristiche

Pannello superiore



      36        7     5                        5        7        31
                      6        3         4     6
      37        8                                       8
 38                   18                       18                32
 39             9                                       9
      34
                     19             1              19            33
 35          10                                         10
                      20                       20
      22     11       21                       21       11       25

      23                            16                           26
             12           17                  17        12
 24                                                                   27
 13                                                                   13

                                    2
                     14                            14


           15                  28        28                 15


                          29                  29



                                    30


64
1.    Schermo tattile: questo display multi-touch a colori mostra informazioni specifiche per l'operazione
      corrente del Seventy-Two MKII. Toccare il display e servirsi dei comandi hardware per controllare
      l'interfaccia. Per maggiori informazioni, si veda Operazione > Schermo tattile.
2.    Shift: tenere premuto questo pulsante per accedere alle funzioni secondarie di altri comandi del
      Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    View/Menu: Premere questo tasto per passare alla vista Library e Waveform sullo schermo tattile. Si
      veda Operazione > Schermo tattile per maggiori informazioni.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto, oppure tenere premuto questo tasto per 4 secondi,
      per far comparire il menu principale del Seventy-Two MKII.
4.    Effects/Tap: premere questo tasto per visualizzare la schermata Effetti.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto più volte al tempo desiderato per impostare
      manualmente il BPM per gli effetti beat-tempo, per ciascun canale.
5.    Back: premere questo tasto per visualizzare la schermata precedente. In vista libreria, premere questo
      tasto per tornare indietro lungo i livelli dell’organizzazione della libreria.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questo tasto per aprire l’area “Prepare” in Serato DJ Pro.
6.    Load/Scroll: girare questa manopola per scorrere lungo gli elenchi e premerla per selezionare una
      voce o per caricare la traccia selezionata sul deck. Quando ci si trova in vista Waveform (onda),
      toccare questa manopola per passare alla vista Libreria sullo schermo tattile.
      Tenere premuto Shift e premere questa manopola per caricare la traccia attualmente selezionata
      sull’area “Prepare”.
      Suggerimento: premere la manopola rapidamente due volte per caricare la stessa traccia su entrambi
      i deck (“raddoppio istantaneo”).
7.    Deck Source (fonte deck): impostare questa manopola sulla fonte audio desiderata per questo
      canale: USB A o B (una traccia che viene riprodotta su quello strato del software), PH/CD (un
      dispositivo collegato al Deck PH/CD In sul pannello posteriore), o Aux (un dispositivo collegato al
      Deck Aux In sul pannello posteriore).
      Nota bene: se si seleziona PH/CD, impostare adeguatamente gli interruttori di selezione PH/CD sul
      pannello posteriore.
      Nota bene: i comandi di un deck invieranno informazioni MIDI unicamente quando il selettore di
      fonte del deck è impostato su USB A o B.
8.    Deck Level (livello deck): girare questa manopola per impostare il livello audio pre-fader, pre-EQ del
      canale corrispondente. Il misuratore accanto a questa manopola indica il livello di volume del segnale
      (ridurlo se inizia a “saltare” raggiungendo la parte rossa del misuratore).
9.    Deck EQ High: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze alte (treble).      Nota bene: tutti i
10.   Deck EQ Mid: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze medie.               comandi EQ sono
                                                                                         full-kill.
11.   Deck EQ Low: girare questa manopola per regolare le frequenze basse (bass).
12.   Deck LP/HP: girare questa manopola per regolare il filtro applicato al deck. Girare la manopola in
      senso antiorario per applicare un filtro passa basso. Girare la manopola in senso orario per applicare
      un filtro passa alto. Impostarla in posizione centrale (“12:00”) per disattivare i filtri.
      Suggerimento: In via predefinita i filtri sono full-kill, ma è possibile regolare le frequenze di taglio
      recandosi su Main Menu > Mixer Settings > Filter Setup e modificando Low Pass Min e High Pass
      Max.
13.   Tasti modalità pad: premere uno di questi tasti per entrare nella modalità pad corrispondente.
      Premerlo una volta per entrare nella modalità principale (stampata sopra) e una seconda volta per
      entrare nella modalità secondaria (stampata sotto). Premere Shift e uno di questi tasti per accedere
      alle modalità pad personalizzate. Si veda Operazione > Modalità pad per scoprire come utilizzare i
      pad in ciascuna modalità.
14.   Pad performance: questi pad hanno funzioni diverse su ciascun deck a seconda della modalità pad
      corrente. Servirsi dei tasti modalità pad per selezionare la modalità pad. I pad sono sensibili alla
      velocità (solo in determinate modalità), resistenti e facili da suonare. Si veda Operazione > Modalità
      pad per scoprire come utilizzare i pad in ciascuna modalità.
15.   Parameter /: servirsi di questi tasti per varie funzioni in ciascuna modalità pad. Tenere premuto
      Shift utilizzare questi tasti per accedere a parametri secondari.


                                                                                                           65
16.   Touch FX: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare la funzione X-Y del touch-pad sullo
      schermo tattile. Si può utilizzare questa funzione per controllare vari parametri effetti. Per maggiori
      informazioni, si veda Operazione > Effetti.
17.   Commutatore Effects: allontanare questo commutatore per attivare gli effetti software e gli effetti
      Flex del Seventy-Two MKII—il commutatore si blocca in quella posizione. Posizionare il commutatore
      in posizione centrale per disattivare gli effetti.
      Tirare il commutatore verso di sé e mantenerlo in posizione per attivare momentaneamente gli effetti
      software e gli effetti del Seventy-Two MKII e rilasciarlo per disattivarli: il commutatore tornerà alla
      posizione centrale.
      Nota bene: gli interruttori di commutazione effetti possono essere rimossi e ruotati di 180°, come
      desiderato.
18.   Manopola Parameter: girare queste manopole per regolare vari parametri effetti. Il punto focale della
      manopola parametri è indicato sullo schermo tattile con una caret (segno di omissione) bianca per
      ciascun banco.
19.   FX 1–3: premere ciascuno di questi tasti per attivare o disattivare il corrispondente effetto software in
      un banco di tre effetti.
20.   Flex FX: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare gli effetti interni del Seventy-Two MKII.
21.   Depth: girare questa manopola per regolare il mix “wet-dry” del Flex FX interne su quel deck.
22.   Sampler Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il livello del volume del campionatore del
      software.
23.   Campionatore LP/HP: girare questa manopola per regolare il filtro applicato al campionatore
      software. Girare la manopola in senso antiorario per applicare un filtro passa basso. Girare la
      manopola in senso orario per applicare un filtro passa alto. Impostarla in posizione centrale (“12:00”)
      per ottenere una risposta “flat” (senza filtri).
24.   Campionatore Effects: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare gli effetti per il campionatore
      software.
      Nota bene: il campionatore deve essere selezionato nel menu di convogliamento Effetti. Per maggiori
      dettagli, si veda Effetti.
25.   Cue Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il livello del volume del canale cue.
26.   Cue Mix: girare questo comando per mixare tra il canale cue e il mix di programma nelle uscite
      cuffie. Quando impostato all’estrema sinistra, si sentirà unicamente il canale cue. Quando impostato
      all’estrema destra, si udrà solo il mix programma.
27.   Split Cue: quando questo tasto è acceso (On), l’audio delle cuffie sarà “suddiviso” in modo che il
      canale cue venga sommato a mono e inviato al canale cuffie di sinistra, e che il mix di programma
      venga sommato a mono e inviato al canale destro. Quando il tasto è fioco (Off), il canale Cue e il mix
      di programma verranno “miscelati” insieme. In entrambi i casi, servirsi della manopola Cue Mix per
      regolare la miscela dei due segnali.
28.   Deck Cue: premere questo tasto per inviare il segnale pre-fader di questo deck al canale cue per il
      monitoraggio. Una volta attivato, il tasto sarà acceso. Per effettuare il cueing di più canali
      contemporaneamente, premere i tasti deck cue di entrambi i deck.
29.   Fader canale: muovere questo fader per regolare il livello del volume del deck corrispondente.
30.   Crossfader: servirsi di questo fader per mixare tra i deck.
31.   Main: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume di uscita delle uscite main. I misuratori accanto
      a questa manopola indicano il livello di volume del segnale (ridurlo se inizia a “saltare” raggiungendo la
      parte rossa del misuratore).
32.   Booth: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume di uscita delle uscite booth.
33.   Session Out: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume delle uscite Session.
34.   Session In: girare questa manopola per regolare il volume di uscita degli ingressi Session.
35.   Session In Cue: premere questo tasto per inviare il segnale dagli ingressi Session al canale cue per il
      monitoraggio. Una volta attivato, il tasto sarà acceso.
36.   Mic 1 Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il guadagno dell'ingresso Mic 1. Il misuratore
      accanto a questa manopola indica il livello di volume del segnale (ridurlo se inizia a “saltare”
      raggiungendo la parte rossa del misuratore).
37.   Mic 1 Tone: girare questa manopola per regolare l’equilibrio tra frequenze basse e alte (treble) del
      segnale audio proveniente dall’ingresso Mic 1.

66
38.   Mic 1 On/Duck: premere questo comando per attivare o disattivare l’ingresso Mic 1 sul pannello
      posteriore.
      Tenere premuto questo tasto per 2 secondi per attivare la funzione di “abbassamento” che riduce il
      livello del volume di tutti gli ingressi di 10 dB. Quando questa funzione è attiva il tasto lampeggia.
      Premere nuovamente il tasto per disattivare questa funzione e l’ingresso Mic 1.
39.   Mic 1 Echo: premere questo tasto per attivare o disattivare l'effetto eco sul segnale di ingresso Mic
      1. Girare la manopola Mic 1 Echo sul pannello anteriore per regolare la quantità dell’effetto.


Pannello posteriore

                                                                       8         8
                                   14            13               9         9              11 12
                      2
                                                                                           11 12
                      1           3       3 4 6 5
                                                                  10              7
1.    Ingresso di alimentazione: quando il Seventy-Two MKII è spento, collegare il cavo di alimentazione
      in dotazione a questo ingresso e quindi a una presa di alimentazione.
2.    Interruttore di alimentazione: servirsi di questo interruttore per accendere e spegnere il Seventy-Two
      MKII. Accendere il Seventy-Two MKII solo dopo aver collegato tutti i dispositivi di ingresso e prima di
      accendere amplificatori e casse. Spegnere amplificatori e casse prima di spegnere il Seventy-Two MKII.
3.    Uscite Main: collegare queste uscite ad altoparlanti o a un impianto di amplificazione. Servirsi della
      manopola Master sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del volume.
4.    Uscite Booth (1/4”/6,35 mm, TRS): collegare queste uscite a monitor booth o a un impianto di
      amplificazione booth. Servirsi della manopola Booth sul pannello superiore per controllare il livello del
      volume.
5.    Ingressi Session (RCA): collegare questi ingressi da un dispositivo a livello di linea quale un altro
      mixer, un lettore CD, una drum machine, ecc. Il segnale sarà inviato direttamente al mix di
      programma. Girare la manopola Session In sul pannello superiore per regolare il livello del volume di
      ingresso.
6.    Uscite Session (RCA): collegare queste uscite a un altro mixer, dispositivo di registrazione, ecc. Il mix
      di programma sarà inviato a queste uscite. Girare la manopola Session Out sul pannello superiore per
      regolare il livello del volume.
7.    Ingressi Deck PH/CD (RCA): collegare questi ingressi a una fonte audio esterna o a un giradischi, a
      un lettore CD o a un altro dispositivo a livello di linea. Ricordarsi di impostare il selettore PH/CD
      corrispondente nella posizione adeguata e impostare la manopola deck source per quel deck su
      PH/CD per riprodurre il relativo segnale audio su quel deck.
8.    Selettore PH/CD: impostare questo interruttore sulla posizione adeguata, a seconda del dispositivo
      collegato agli ingressi PH/CD del deck corrispondente. Se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono,
      impostare l’interruttore su PH per garantire l’amplificazione aggiuntiva necessaria per i segnali a livello
      phono. Se si utilizza un dispositivo a livello di linea quale un giradischi a livello di linea, un lettore CD o
      un campionatore, impostare l’interruttore su CD.
9.    Phono Grounds: se si utilizzano giradischi a livello phono dotati di cavo di messa a terra, collegare
      quest’ultimo a questi terminali. Se si verifica un “ronzio” o un “brusio” basso, ciò può significare che i
      giradischi non sono messi a terra.
      Nota bene: alcuni giradischi hanno il cavo di messa a terra incorporato nel collegamento RCA e, di
      conseguenza, non è necessario collegare nulla al terminale di messa a terra.
10.   Ingresso Aux deck (RCA): collegare questi ingressi a una fonte audio esterna a livello di linea.
      Ricordarsi di impostare la manopola deck source per quel deck su Aux per riprodurre il segnale audio
      su quel deck.


                                                                                                                  67
11.   Ingressi Mic 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6,35 mm, TS): collegare microfoni o dispositivi a livello di linea a questi
      ingressi mono. I relativi segnali audio mono sono divisi e convogliati direttamente al mix programma
      stereo e al canale cue. Se si preferisce un ingresso di linea stereo, è possibile utilizzare l’Ingresso
      Session.
12.   Selettore Line/Mic: impostare questo interruttore nella posizione adeguata, a seconda del dispositivo
      collegato agli Ingressi Mic 1–2. Se si utilizza un microfono, impostare l'interruttore su Mic. Se si
      utilizza un dispositivo a livello di linea quale una tastiera o un campionatore, impostare l’interruttore su
      Line (linea).
13.   Porte USB Twelve/Controller (USB Tipo A): servirsi di cavi USB per collegare queste porte USB ai
      controller quali il Twelve o un controller USB MIDI standard.
      Importante: non collegare drive USB a queste porte. L’attivazione della manopola deck source
      forzerà l’espulsione del drive dal computer collegato, cosa che potrebbe danneggiarne i contenuti e
      deve essere evitata.
14.   Porte USB (USB Tipo B): servirsi di cavi USB per collegare queste porte USB ad una porta USB libera
      del computer. Questi collegamenti inviano e ricevono audio e informazioni di controllo MIDI da e verso
      il computer.
      Nota bene: assicurarsi di aver scaricato e installato il pannello di controllo Rane da dj.rane.com.


Pannello anteriore


                                             7         6
                                                                          9
                      2        3                                                   1
                      5        4
                                                                        10
                                                       8
1.    Uscite cuffie (1/4”, 1/8” / 6,35 mm, 3,5 mm, TRS): collegare cuffie da 1/4” o 1/8” (6,5 mm o 3,5 mm) a
      questa uscita per il monitoraggio del mix e il cueing.
2.    Mic 2 On: quando è impostato su On, l'ingresso Mic 2 sul pannello posteriore è attivo, e il suo
      segnale audio viene convogliato direttamente a Mix Programma e Cue Mix. Quando è impostato su
      Off, l'ingresso Mic 2 è disattivo.
3.    Mic 2 Level: girare questa manopola per regolare il guadagno dell'ingresso Mic 2.
4.    Mic 2 Tone: girare questa manopola per regolare l’equilibrio tra frequenze basse e alte (treble) del
      segnale audio proveniente dall’ingresso Mic 2.
5.    Mic 1 Echo: girare questa manopola per regolare la quantità di effetto eco del segnale di ingresso
      Mic 1. Premere il tasto Mic 1 Echo sul pannello superiore per attivare o disattivare questo effetto.
6.    Manopola di tensione: servirsi di questa manopola per regolare la tensione del crossfader. Girare la
      manopola verso sinistra per allentare il crossfader per una sensazione più leggera e verso destra per
      stringere il crossfader per una sensazione più pesante.
7.    Contour Controls: regola la variazione della curva del crossfader. Girare la manopola verso sinistra
      per una dissolvenza uniforme (mix) oppure verso destra per un taglio netto (scratch). La posizione
      centrale è un'impostazione tipica per esibizioni in discoteca.
8.    Reverse del fader: impostare questo interruttore su On per invertire la direzione (“polarità”) del fader
      corrispondente. Impostarlo su Off per utilizzare la polarità convenzionale del fader.
9.    Deck Swap: impostare questo interruttore su On per invertire i fader canale destro e sinistro così
      come controllati dal Seventy-Two MKII. Impostarlo su Off per utilizzare la configurazione
      convenzionale del deck.
10.   Ingresso Footswitch (1/4”/6,35 mm, TRS): collegare a questo livello un interruttore a pedale che può
      essere utilizzato per attivare o disattivare gli effetti. Questo può anche essere assegnato ad altre
      funzioni. Questo ingresso supporta un interruttore a pedale a tre interruttori con chiusura a contatto
      passivo.

68
Operazione

Schermo tattile
Per commutare tra le viste Waveform e Library, premere il tasto View/Menu.

Vista Waveform (onde)
                                                                                                 1
In vista Waveform (onde), le onde relative alle tracce sono visualizzate
verticalmente a display, con il Canale 1 sul lato sinistro e il Canale 2 sul    2
lato destro. L’onda grande rappresenta una sezione della traccia corrente.
L’onda più piccola rappresenta l’intera traccia corrente.                       3
1.    Time (tempo): mostra a display il tempo rimanente della traccia
      corrente.
2.    Key/Key Lock: tenere premuto Shift e toccare quest’icona per             4
      commutare tra le visuali Key e Key Lock. Quando è selezionato Key,
      la tonalità della traccia corrente sarà mostrata a display ed è
      possibile toccarla per disattivare la funzione di Key Sync. Quando è
      selezionato Key Lock, l’icona Key Lock (o l’icona Serato Pitch 'n         5
      Time, se installato) comparirà a display ed è possibile toccarla per
      abilitare o disattivare la funzione Key Lock. Quando una qualsiasi
      funzione è attivata, il campo sarà evidenziato.
3.    Overview: l’onda più piccola rappresenta una panoramica dell’intera   6
      traccia corrente. Si può utilizzare il dito per "scorrere" lungo la                 7
      traccia mentre viene riprodotta. Si possono anche utilizzare due dita
      per zoomare ingrandendo l’onda più grande e allontanarle per
      rimpicciolirla.
      Nota bene: se l’opzione Disable Needle Search in Serato DJ Pro è stata abilitata, sarà necessario
      tenere premuto Shift per scorrere lungo la traccia.
4.    Song Position: posizione della testina di riproduzione nella traccia corrente.
5.    Hot Cue: mostra a display i punti hot cue distinti per colore.
6.    Sync: quando Sync è abilitato, il campo sarà evidenziato e gli indicatori del BPM diventeranno blu.
      Per abilitare o disabilitare la funzione Sync, tenere premuto Shift e toccare l’icona di uno dei canali.
7.    BPM: battiti al minuto della traccia corrente.
Nota bene: se Load/Scroll Touch è acceso e ci si trova in vista Waveform (onda), toccando la manopola
Load/Scroll si richiama rapidamente la vista Library (libreria). Si veda Menu Principale per sapere com
attivare o disattivare questa opzione.


Vista Libreria                                                                 Schermo tattile con vista
                                                                                  Libreria espansa
Nella vista Libreria, il display mostra la libreria del computer collegato.
Se il Seventy-Two MKII è collegato a due computer, verrà mostrato
quello cui entrambi i deck sono stati assegnati l’ultima volta.
Per ambiare vista, far scorrere verso il basso lungo l’icona del menu a
discesa in cina all’elenco delle tracce, quindi toccare l’icona della
modalità desiderata — Vista semplice o Vista espansa.
Per navigare tra le tracce, girare la manopola Load/Scroll.
Per scorrere rapidamente, premere Shift e girare la manopola
Load/Scroll.
Per aprire un crate o caricare una traccia su un deck, premere la
manopola Load/Scroll.
Per tornare indietro di un livello, premere Back.



                                                                                                            69
Menu principale
Per accedere al menu principale, premere Shift e View/Menu, oppure tenere premuto
View/Menu per 4 secondi. Il menu principale contiene le seguenti opzioni.


Impostazioni mixer: selezionare questa opzione per modificare le seguenti impostazioni.
 •   Audio Out: selezionare questa opzione per modificare le impostazioni di Main Out, Mic 1
     Clean Feed e Deck Balance.
     Nota bene: quando Clean Feed è attivo (On), il Mic 1 non farà passare l’audio quando si
     registra in Serato DJ Pro.
 •   Deck Settings: selezionare questa opzione per modificare la risonanza Deck 1/2 Resonance,
     la risonanza del campionatore Sampler Resonance, la frequenza di taglio per la posizione
     bassa (LOW) delle manopole filtro (Low Pass Min), o la frequenza di taglio per la posizione alta
     (HI) delle manopole filtro (High Pass Max).
     Nota bene: impostare la Phono Sensitivity sulle impostazioni raccomandate dal produttore
     della cartuccia.
 •   Filter Setup: selezionare questa opzione per modificare le impostazioni di Deck 1/2
     Resonance e Sampler Resonance.
 •   Pad Setup: selezionare questa opzione per modificare le impostazioni relative alla sensibilità
     del pad.
 •   Headphone Setup: selezionare questa opzione per modificare le impostazioni relative al tono
     delle cuffie.
 •   Mic 1 Setup: selezionare questa opzione per modificare la quantità di feedback per l’eco del
     microfono (Mic 1 Echo Fdbk), la soglia di “abbassamento” del microfono (Mic 1 Duck
     Thresh), o il tempo di tenuta dell’abbassamento (Mic 1 Duck Hold).
 •   Touch FX Setup: selezionare questa opzione per modificare la modalità Button Mode, che
     determina la funzione del tasto Touch FX. In modalità Touch FX, quella predefinita, toccando il
     tasto si apre la schermata Touch FX. Il LED del pulsante sarà sempre acceso di verde. Sarà
     luminoso quando la schermata Touch FX è aperta e smorzato quando non lo è. In modalità
     Tap, toccando il tasto si imposta il tempo FX del deck evidenziato, e tenendo premuto Shift
     mentre si preme il tasto si apre la schermata Touch FX. Il LED del pulsante sarà spento se il
     pulsante non è premuto.


Flex FX: selezionare questa opzione per visualizzare e modificare le impostazioni Flex FX interne.
 •   Beats Mult.: selezionare questa opzione per stabilire fli incrementi in cui regolare i tempi Flex
     FX.
     o   In modalità Extended è possibile impostare Flex FX su tempi standard che vanno da 1/32 a
         32 beat, oltre a varianti puntate e triplette di ciascuno di essi.
     o   In modalità Simple, quella predefinita, è possibile impostare i beat Flex FX solo su tempi
         standard (niente triplette o tempi puntati).
     o   In modalità No Dotted, i beat Flex FX comprendono tempi standard e triplette, ma non
         tempi puntati.
     o   In modalità No Triplet, i beat Flex FX comprendono tempi standard e puntati, ma non
         triplette.
 •   FX List: è possibile modificare qualsiasi effetto elencato sotto l’opzione Beats Mult.
     o   Per aggiungere o rimuovere un effetto dall’elenco dei preferiti, toccare il cerchio sul
         lato destra del display. Quando il cerchio è verde, l’effetto sarà incluso nell’elenco dei Flex
         FX nella vista effetti. Quando il cerchio è vuoto e il nome effetti è ombreggiato, l’effetto non
         compare più nell’elenco.
     o   Per regolare le impostazioni predefinite del Flex FX interno, toccare l’icona con la
         chiave inglese. Qualsiasi modifica apportata sarà salvata sul mixer.

70
Cut-In Adjust: selezionare questa opzione per entrare nel
menu di regolazione Cut-In Adjust. Quest’ultimo controlla la
quantità di spazio morto tra le posizioni aperta e chiusa di un
fader. Selezionare il fader che si desidera regolare, quindi
spostare il fader selezionato sulla posizione desiderata e
premere Set per memorizzare l’impostazione.




Footswitch: selezionare questa opzione per impostare le assegnazioni agli interruttori a pedale
Footswitch1/2/3.
 •   Se assegnato a MIDI, toccando un interruttore a pedale viene eseguita una funzione MIDI
     programmata nel proprio software Serato.
 •   Se assegnato a FX 1 Latch o FX 2 Latch, toccando un interruttore a pedale si fissa un effetto
     per il Deck 1 o 2.
 •   Se assegnato a FX 1 Moment o FX 2 Moment, toccando un interruttore a pedale si attivano
     temporaneamente effetti per il Deck 1 o 2.
 •   Se assegnato a Tap, toccando un interruttore a pedale si imposta il tempo FX del deck
     attualmente evidenziato sul Schermo tattile.


Display: selezionare questa opzione per visualizzare e modificare le impostazioni per il Schermo
tattile.
 •   Screen Brightness: selezionare questa opzione per regolare la luminosità del display.
 •   Scroll Touch: selezionare questa opzione per determinare se con il tocco della manopola
     Load/Scroll si viene reindirizzati alla vista Libreria dalla vista Onda.
 •   Pad Mode Display: selezionare questa opzione per stabilire le le funzioni Performance Pad
     sono visualizzate sul Schermo tattile quando un tasto Pad Mode è premuto.
 •   Startup View: selezionare questa opzione per scegliere la vista predefinita quando si accende
     il Seventy-Two MKII (Waveform, Library, o Effects).
     Nota bene: per l’accensione in vista Onda o Libreria occorre il collegamento a Serato. Se non è
     collegato a Serato, il Seventy-Two MKII si accenderà in vista Effetti.


Ripristino delle configurazioni predefinite

Per ripristinare le impostazioni originali di un campo specifico del menu, scegliere innanzitutto
una delle opzioni del menu principale. L’ultima voce di ciascun menu sarà Restore Defaults.
Selezionando questa voce, compare un messaggio a pop-up. Selezionare Restore per tornare alle
impostazioni originali o Cancel per annullare.


Per riportare il Seventy-Two MKII alla configurazione originale di tutti i menu
contemporaneamente, recarsi innanzitutto al menu principale (Main). Quindi scorrere verso l’alto
sul Schermo tattile, e comparirà una voce intitolata Factory Reset. Selezionando questa voce,
compare un messaggio a pop-up. Scegliere Restore per riportare tutte le impostazioni ai loro valori
predefiniti o Cancel per tornare indietro.


                                                                                                  71
Effetti

Vista Effetti

Premere il tasto Effects/Tap per entrare in vista Effetti, in cui è possibile modificare gli effetti di entrambi i
banchi FX (A e B) e controllare quali effetti attivare su ciascun deck.

Ciascun banco effetti contiene fino a un massimo di 3 effetti
software, oltre al Flex FX per un totale di fino a 8 effetti che
possono essere aggiunti e convogliati al Deck 1, al Deck 2 o al
campionatore. In via predefinita, gli effetti sono convogliati al
Deck 1 e al Deck 2.

Per modificare il convogliamento degli effetti:
1.    Toccare le icone blu 1/2/S in cima al display per entrare
      nell’apposito menu Routing.
2.    Selezionare dove si desidera convogliare gli effetti, quindi
      premere OK per tornare alla pagina precedente. Entrambi
      i banchi effetti possono essere convogliati allo stesso (o
      agli stessi) deck.

Per aggiungere e utilizzare gli effetti:
1.    Premere il tasto Effects per entrare nella vista Effetti.
2.    Toccare lo schermo tattile per selezionare l’effetto
      desiderato e premere la manopola Parameter per
      passare alla modalità di scelta FX.
3.    Girare la manopola Parameter Knob per scorrere lungo
      la lista degli effetti e premerla per caricare l’effetto su quella slot.
4.    Premere i tasti FX 1–3 o Flex FX per attivare l’effetto nella catena. Gli effetti sono applicai in sequenza
      nella catena (FX1 > FX2 > FX3 > Flex FX).
5.    Servirsi dei commutatori effetti per applicare gli effetti al Deck 1 e 2. Allontanare il commutatore per
      bloccare un effetto, oppure avvicinarlo a sé e mantenerlo in posizione per attivare un effetto
      momentaneamente.
      Premere il tasto Sampler Effects per applicare gli effetti al campionatore.

Per modificare un effetto software:
1.    Toccare l’effetto sul display.
2.    Girare la manopola Parameter per iniziare a modificare il parametro selezionato. Premendo la
      manopola Parameter si passa alla modalità di scelta software FX per l’effetto evidenziato.

Per modificare il Flex FX interno:
1.    Toccare per portare la manopola Parameter Knob sull’effetto desiderato, quindi servirsi della
      manopola Parameter stessa per regolare. Toccare due volte l’effetto desiderato per regolare le
      impostazioni predefinite del Flex FX. Qualsiasi modifica apportata sarà salvata sul mixer.
2.    Per modificare la tempistica dell’effetto, toccare il tempo e girare la manopola Parameter.
      Nota bene: le regolazioni di tempo sono per banco. Per Beat Breaker e Reverb Flex FX, il parametro
      regolabile non è il tempo, ma, rispettivamente, il numero e la percentuale di decadimento.

      Suggerimento: dopo aver selezionato il numero di pattern per il Beat Breaker, tenere premuto Shift
      e premere la manopola Parameter per modificare il pattern. Apportare modifiche girando e
      premendo la manopola Parameter per alzare o abbassare i blocchi nel pattern. Per uscire dalla
      modalità di modifica, premere Shift e la manopola Parameter di nuovo. Solo i pattern 11-16
      saranno salvati sul mixer al momento dello spegnimento.

72
Touch FX

Premere il tasto Touch FX per aprire la schermata Touch FX in cui è possibile toccare
semplicemente il display per attivare e manipolare gli effetti presenti sul Deck 1 o 2.


Per selezionare il deck al quale è applicato il Touch FX, toccare la freccia del rispettivo Deck. I
tasti FX degli effetti convogliati a quel deck saranno evidenziati.


Per attivare e manipolare gli effetti convogliati al deck, far scorrere il dito attraverso il display.
Facendolo scorrere lungo l’asse Y si applica un filtro passa alto (su) o passa basso (giù). Scorrendo
sull’asse X, si modifica il parametro di tempo Time per qualsiasi Flex FX attivo. Il parametro di tempo
Time per il Flex FX sarà visualizzato in fondo allo schermo del Touch FX e si aggiornerà man mano
che viene fatto scorrere verso sinistra/destra sull’asse X. Sollevando il dito dal Schermo tattile, il
filtro sarà disattivato e il timing FX tornerà all’impostazione precedente. È possibile modificare il
parametro di tempo Time predefinito dalla schermata Touch FX toccandolo e girando la manopola
Parameter Knob.
Note: Per Beat Breaker e Reverb Flex FX, il parametro regolabile non è il tempo, ma,
rispettivamente, il numero e la percentuale di decadimento.

Nota bene: le modifiche del Beat Breaker possono essere inserite dallo schermo Touch FX
toccando il numero di pattern e quindi premendo Shift e la manopola Parameter Knob. Si veda
Effetti > Vista Effetti in alto per saperne di più.


Per cambiare l’effetto Flex attivato sul deck, toccare il nome dell’effetto, premere la manopola
Parameter Knob per entrare in modalità FX select e quindi girare la manopola Parameter Knob per
scorrere tra gli effetti. Premere nuovamente la manopola Parameter Knob per uscire dalla modalità
FX select.




                                                                                                    73
Modalità Pad

Questo capitolo descrive le diverse modalità pad.
Ciascun deck presenta otto pad, che si trovano sempre
in una di queste modalità e i pad di ciascun deck si
possono trovare in una modalità diversa. Premere uno             1        2      3         4
dei tasti modalità pad per entrare nella modalità pad
corrispondente su quel deck. Ciascun tasto modalità
pad alternerà tra due modalità a ciascuna pressione.             5        6      7         8

Suggerimento: in ciascuna modalità pad, premere
Shift e uno dei tasti modalità pad per accedere a
modalità aggiuntive o utilizzare modalità personalizzate.




Con Pad Mode Display acceso, premendo un tasto modalità pad a
display compare la funzione di ciascun Pad performance quando si
opera nell’ambito della modalità selezionata. Questo display compare in
fondo al Schermo tattile, se ci si trova in vista Onda, Effetti o nella
schermata Touch FX. Toccare in qualsiasi punto di questo display per
mantenerlo sul Schermo tattile, o scomparirà dopo 5 secondi. Si veda
Menu principale per sapere come attivare o disattivare questa funzione.




Cue
In modalità Cue, ciascun pad assegna un punto hot cue o fa tornare la traccia a quel punto hot cue.
Per entrare in modalità Cue, premere Cue / Pitch Play in modo che si illumini di bianco.
Per assegnare un punto hot cue, premere un pad spento nel punto desiderato della traccia.
Quando è assegnato, il pad si illumina (del colore corrispondente, se disponibile).
Per saltare a un punto hot cue, premere un pad illuminato.
Per cancellare un punto hot cue assegnato, premere Shift e il pad corrispondente.




74
Pitch Play
                                                                           Up (su)
In modalità Pitch Play, ciascun pad riproduce la
traccia da un punto hot cue ad una trasposizione           +4           +5         +6         +7
diversa (regolabile in semitoni). Per poter utilizzare   semitoni     semitoni   semitoni   semitoni
questa modalità, il pack di espansione DJ Serato
Pitch ‘n Time deve essere installato. Si veda Cue
per sapere come si assegnano i punti hot cue.                0
                                                                         +1        +2         +3
Nota bene: una scheda di download di Serato Pitch          (pitch
                                                                      semitono   semitoni   semitoni
'n Time con un numero di serie è inclusa con il          originale)
Seventy-Two MKII.
Per entrare in modalità Pitch Play, premere Cue /                      Middle (centro)
Pitch Play in modo che si illumini di verde.
                                                             0
                                                                         +1        +2         +3
Per selezionare quale punto hot cue utilizzare,            (pitch
                                                                      semitono   semitoni   semitoni
premere Shift e un pad dalla luce smorzata.             originale)

Per selezionare l’intervallo di trasposizione che
utilizzeranno i pad, servirsi dei tasti Parameter          -4           -3         -2         -1
/ (vedi schemi qui di seguito).                        semitoni     semitoni   semitoni   semitoni
Per regolare la tonalità della traccia corrente in
alto o in basso, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter
/, rispettivamente.                                                     Down (giù)

Per riprodurre la traccia dal punto hot cue,                                                    0
                                                           -3           -2          -1
premere un pad acceso. Ciascun pad corrisponde                                                (pitch
                                                         semitoni     semitoni   semitono
a una trasposizione specifica (in semitoni), che                                            originale)
dipende dall’intervallo di trasposizione corrente (si
vedano gli schemi qui di seguito). Il pad privo di
trasposizione (il pitch originale) sarà illuminato di      -7           -6         -5         -4
bianco.                                                  semitoni     semitoni   semitoni   semitoni




Auto Loop

In modalità Loop automatico, ciascun pad attiva o rilascia un auto-Loop di una lunghezza diversa. La
griglia dei loop del software determina le dimensioni del loop.

Per entrare in modalità Auto Loop, premere Auto Loop / Man Loop in modo che si illumini di blu
scuro.
Per modificare le otto lunghezze dell'auto loop illustrate (nel software), premere uno dei tasti
Parameter /. Il layout dei pad cambierà di conseguenza.
Per spostare il loop Audio in avanti o indietro, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter/,
rispettivamente.




                                                                                                    75
Manual Loop
In modalità loop manuale, ciascun pad farà tornare la 1               2            3            4
traccia a un loop creato e salvato in precedenza. I
layout dei pad dei due banchi sono identici.            Loop 1            Loop 2       Loop 3       Loop 4

Per entrare in modalità Manual Loop, premere
Auto Loop / Man Loop in modo che si illumini di 5                     6            7           8
                                                                                    Attivare /
verde.                                                       Set         Set
                                                                                   disattivare   Reloop
                                                           Loop In     Loop Out
Per creare un loop, premere il Pad 5 per impostare il                                 loop
punto di Loop In e quindi premere il Pad 6 per
impostare il punto di Loop Out e attivare il loop.
Per salvare un loop, mentre un loop è attivo, premere un pad spento nella fila superiore (Pad 1–4).
Questo può essere fatto indipendentemente dal modo in cui il loop è stato creato (modalità Auto
Loop, Manual Loop, ecc.).

Per attivare o disattivare un loop salvato, premere un pad acceso nella fila superiore (Pad 1–4).
Per cancellare un loop salvato, premere Shift e un pad acceso nella fila superiore (Pad 1–4).
Per attivare o disattivare l’ultimo loop attivato, premere il Pad 7.
Per riattivare immediatamente l’ultimo loop attivato (“reloop”), premere il Pad 8.
Per dimezzare o raddoppiare la lunghezza di un loop, premere i tasti Parameter /,
rispettivamente.
Per spostare un loop in avanti o indietro, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter /,
rispettivamente.


Manual Loop 2

Per entrare in modalità Manual Loop 2, tenere premuto Shift e premere Auto Loop / Man Loop
(2) in modo che si illumini di giallo. In questa modalità, i pad 1–4 sono utilizzati per attivare o
disattivare, rispettivamente, i loop 5–8.


Roll

In modalità Roll, ciascun pad attiva un Loop Roll momentaneo. Rilasciando il pad si ferma il loop roll
e si riprende la riproduzione normale nel punto in cui la testina di riproduzione si troverebbe se non
fosse stato attivato il loop roll (ossia, se la traccia avesse continuato la sua riproduzione per tutto il
tempo).
Nota bene: disattivare Show Beat Jump Controls nel menu SeratoSetup per accedere a 8 giri di
loop contemporaneamente. Si possono anche visualizzare e modificare le dimensioni del loop
impostate nel software.

Per entrare in modalità Roll, premere Roll / Pad FX in modo che si illumini di color acqua.
Per attivare un loop roll, tenere premuto un pad.
Per modificare le otto lunghezze dei loop illustrate (nel software) premere uno dei tasti
Parameter /. Il layout dei pad cambierà di conseguenza.
Per spostare il loop in avanti o indietro, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter /, rispettivamente.




76
Pad FX
In modalità Pad FX, i pad selezionano e attivano gli 1                   2            3            4
effetti. La fila superiore di pad seleziona il tipo di     Vinyl
effetti e quella inferiore attiva e controlla la lunghezza               Backspin         Gate         Echo
                                                           Brake
dell’effetto.

Per entrare in modalità Pad FX, premere Roll / Pad 5                     6            7            8
FX in modo che si illumini di giallo.
                                                              Size 1         Size 2       Size 3       Size 4
Per selezionare l’effetto Vinyl Brake, premere il
Pad 1. Quando ll’effetto Vinyl Brake è attivato dalla
fila inferiore di pad, l’audio rallenta come se un piatto
fono si fosse fermato sfumando fino al silenzio dopo
il tempo selezionato.
Per selezionare l’effetto Backspin, premere il Pad 2. Quando l’effetto Backspin è attivato da uno
dei pad della fila inferiore, l’audio suona all’indietro e accelera come se un piatto fono venisse
riavvolto, sfumando fino al silenzio dopo il tempo selezionato.

Per selezionare l’effetto Gate, premere il Pad 3. Quando l’effetto Gate è attivato da uno dei pad
della fila inferiore, un effetto cancello temporizzato viene applicato all’audio basandosi sulle
dimensioni selezionate.

Per selezionare l’effetto Eco, premere il Pad 4. Quando l’effetto eco è attivato dai pad della fila
inferiore, l’audio echeggerà fino al silenzio basandosi sulle dimensioni selezionate.
Nota bene: l’effetto eco può essere abbinato ad altri effetti. Tutti gli altri effetti sono esclusivi.
Per attivare l’effetto selezionato, premere uno dei Pad 5–8. Ciascun pad attiva l’effetto
immediatamente con una determinata dimensione, aumentando dal Pad 5 (tempo minore) al Pad 8
(tempo maggiore). Quando viene attivato un effetto, il pad selezionato lampeggia.
Nota bene: selezionando una nuova modalità pad si disattivano tutti i Pad FX attualmente attivi su
quel deck.


Campionatore

In modalità campionatore, i pad controlleranno il campionatore nel software. Ciascun pad attiva un
campione ad un volume specifico (è possibile assegnare il campione e il relativo volume nel
software).

Per entrare in modalità Campionatore, premere Sampler / Fader in modo che si illumini di viola.
Per assegnare un campione, evidenziare innanzitutto il campione desiderato nella libreria. Quindi
tenere premuto Shift e premere un pad corrispondente a uno slot vuoto del campionatore. Il
volume dello slot del campionatore può essere regolato in Serato.
Per riprodurre un campione, premere un pad illuminato. Durante la riproduzione del campione, il
pad lampeggia.

Per interrompere la riproduzione di un campione, premere Shift e un Pad mentre viene
riprodotto.

Per commutare tra i banchi di campioni, premere i tasti Parameter /.
Per commutare tra le uscite del campionatore, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter /.




                                                                                                                77
Fader FX
In modalità Fader FX, i pad silenzieranno e 1                      2             3             4
attiveranno il segnale audio del deck in un modo che 1-Click           2-Click       3-Click       4-Click
simula i movimenti del crossfader verso quel deck.         Flare        Flare         Flare         Flare
Un “clic” è un movimento del crossfader verso un
deck (“aperto”) e poi via da quel deck (“chiuso”). I DJ
                                                        5          6             7             8
usano i clic in diversi schemi ritmici (spesso                       2-to-1
                                                          Trans-
unitamente allo scratch) per creare vari effetti.                  Alternator     Tri-forms         Uzi
                                                         formers
                                                                     Baby
Per entrare in modalità Fader FX, premere Sampler
/ Fader FX in modo che si illumini di verde.
Per attivare un effetto fader, premere uno dei Pad 1–8.
Per invertire un effetto, tenere premuto Shift e premere uno dei Pad 1–8.


Flip
Se è stato acquistato il Serato Flip Expansion Pack, è 1           2             3             4
possibile accedere al comando Flip tenendo premuto
                                                         Flip 1        Flip 2        Flip 3        Flip 4
Shift e premendo Sampler / Fader FX (4). Se non
è stato acquistato il Flip Expansion Pack, sarà
disponibile come modalità di personalizzazione pad
                                                       5           6             7             8
(Custom Pad).
                                                                                  Nessuna       Nessuna
                                                          Flip 5       Flip 6
In questa modalità, ai pad spenti non è assegnato                                  funzione     funzione
alcun Flip; ai pad illuminati di blu è stato assegnato
un Flip, ma non sono in corso di riproduzione; ai pad
illuminati di arancione è stato assegnato un Flip e
vengono attualmente riprodotti.

Per assegnare un Flip a un pad, premere un pad spento (1-6).
Per riprodurre un Flip assegnato, premere il pad corrispondente illuminato di blu (1-6).
Per interrompere immediatamente la riproduzione di un Flip, tenere premuto Shift, quindi
premere il pad corrispondente illuminato di arancione (1-6).
Per avviare la registrazione di un Flip, premere il tasto Parameter sinistro.

Per tornare all’avvio del Flip selezionato, premere il tasto Parameter destro.
Per commutare il Flip Slot Loop, tenere premuto Shift e premere il tasto Parameter sinistro.
Per commutare tra accensione e spegnimento del Flip Slot, tenere premuto Shift e premere il
tasto Parameter destro.




78
Slicer

Importante: la traccia deve avere una griglia del beat affinché questa modalità funzioni.
In modalità Slicer, gli otto pad rappresentano otto 1                 2             3             4
beat sequenziali, "slice", nella griglia del beat. Lo
slice che viene riprodotto è rappresentato dal pad Slice 1                Slice 2       Slice 3       Slice 4
acceso; la luce si "sposta tra i pad" man mano che
avanza attraverso ciascuna frase di otto slice. Si può
premere un pad per riprodurre quello slice. Quando si 5               6             7             8
rilascia il pad verrà ripresa la normale riproduzione Slice 5             Slice 6       Slice 7       Slice 8
della traccia dal punto in cui si sarebbe trovata se
non fosse mai stata premuta (ossia, come se la
traccia avesse continuato a suonare).
Per entrare in modalità Slicer, premere Slicer / Transport in modo che si illumini di rosso. Se si
carica un’altra traccia sul deck o si abilita la modalità Grid Edit, il deck uscirà dalla modalità Slicer.

Per riprodurre uno slice, premere il pad corrispondente.
Per ridurre o aumentare le dimensioni di quantizzazione, premere i tasti Parameter/.
Per ridurre o aumentare le dimensioni degli slice, premere Shift e i tasti Parameter/.


Trasporto
In modalità Comandi di Trasporto, i pad
corrispondono ai diversi comandi di trasporto. Il         Bend del     Bend del     Fader del     Fader del
software entrerà automaticamente in Internal Mode          pitch        pitch         pitch         pitch
quando si fa questo (se si utilizza un controller            -            +             -             +
Twelve con il Seventy-Two MKII, il software sarà
sempre in modalità interna).
                                                           Keylock
                                                                          Sync           Cue           
Per entrare in modalità di Trasporto, premere              INT/REL
Slicer / Transport in modo che si illumini di verde.
Per effettuare il bend temporaneo del pitch verso il basso, premere il Pad 1.
Per effettuare il bend temporaneo del pitch verso l’alto, premere il Pad 2.
Per spostare il fader del pitch verso il basso, premere il Pad 3.
Per spostare il fader del pitch verso l’alto, premere il Pad 4.
Per attivare o disattivare la funzione Blocco tasti, premere il Pad 5.

Per commutare tra la modalità Interna (INT) e la modalità Relativa (REL), premere Shift e il Pad
5. (Il passaggio alla modalità Relativa consente di riprendere il controllo della riproduzione con
controllo di vinili o controllo di CD.)

Per attivare la funzione Sync, premere il Pad 6. Per disattivarla, premere Shift e il Pad 6.
Per passare al punto the cue, premere il Pad 7.
Per avviare o interrompere momentaneamente la riproduzione della traccia, premere il Pad 8.




                                                                                                            79
Slicer Loop

Tenere premuto Shift e premere Slicer / Transport (5) per entrare in modalità Slicer Loop. i pad
si comportano come i pad nella modalità Slicer, tranne per il fatto che la frase da otto Slice effettuerà
un loop anziché avanzare in maniera continua lungo la traccia.


Set pad personalizzati

Oltre alle modalità pad standard, è possibile creare fino a un massimo di 3 set pad personalizzati
utilizzando la funzione di mappatura MiDI del Serato DJ Pro.

Per creare un set pad personalizzato:
1.   Tenere premuto Shift e premere Cue / Pitch Play (1), Roll / Pad FX (3), o Sampler /
     Fader FX (4).
     Nota bene: se è stato acquistato il Serato Flip Expansion Pack, tenendo premuto Shift e
     premendo Sampler / Fader FX (4) si accede ai comandi Flip, non a un set pad
     personalizzato.

2.   In Serato DJ Pro, aprire il menu Setup e selezionare MIDI.
3.   Selezionare il Seventy-Two MKII e assicurarsi che Allow Serato DJ Hardware Remapping sia
     abilitato. Chiudere la finestra Setup.

4.   Nella finestra principale di Serato DJ Pro, fare clic sul tasto MIDI in cima alla schermata per
     iniziare la mappatura.
5.   Fare clic su una funzione in Serato DJ Pro, quindi toccare o muovere un comando sul proprio
     hardware per mappare la funzione stessa su tale comando.
Si veda il manuale del Serato DJ Pro per maggiori informazioni sulla mappatura MIDI.




80
Fader

I fader canale del Seventy-Two MKII sono fader contactless MAG FOUR dalla tensione regolabile.
                                                                           Piastra fader
Per regolare la tensione dei fader canale del Seventy-Two MKII:
                                                                         pannello superiore
1.   Assicurarsi che l’apparecchio sia spento e scollegato
     dall’alimentazione.
2.   Servendosi di un cacciavite, rimuovere le viti dalla piastra
     frontale in fondo al pannello superiore dove si trovano i fader
     (vedi immagine).
     Nota bene: per rimuovere la piastra frontale, occorre
     rimuovere le coperture dei fader.                                 Vista dall'alto di MAG
                                                                       FOUR Fader
3.   Servendosi di un cacciavite, regolare la vite di tensione di
     ciascun fader come desiderato.
                                                   Vite di tensione




Pannello di controllo

Il pannello di controllo Rane consente di regolare le impostazioni
sul mixer Seventy-Two MKII e di caricare e salvare tali
impostazioni su un file (.r72) sul computer. L’utilizzo dei file di
configurazione consente di mantenere numerose configurazioni
diverse dei comandi, da utilizzare in diverse situazioni.

Per gestire i file delle impostazioni, navigare fino alla sezione
Settings del pannello di controllo Rane, sotto la scheda General.

 •   Load: selezionare questo comando per individuare e caricare un file impostazioni (.r72)
     Seventy-Two MKII sul computer sul pannello di controllo.

 •   Save (salva): selezionare questo comando per salvare le impostazioni del mixer sul computer
     sotto forma di file impostazioni del Seventy-Two MKII (.r72).


È inoltre possibile utilizzare il Rane Control Panel per calibrare i
fader sul Seventy-Two MKII:
1.   Assicurarsi che il Seventy-Two MKII sia acceso e collegato
     a una porta disponibile del computer utilizzando un cavo
     USB.
2.   Aprire il Rane Control Panel.
3.   Recarsi su File > Fader Calibration.
4.   Seguire le istruzioni su schermo per selezionare il fader
     desiderato e calibrarlo. Quando la calibrazione è riuscita si
     riceve una notifica.




                                                                                                 81
Benutzerhandbuch (Deutsch)
Einführung
Vielen Dank für den Kauf des Seventy-Two MKII. Wir von Rane DJ wissen, wie wichtig Ihnen
die Musik ist. Darum entwerfen wir unsere Geräte stets nur mit einem einzigen Ziel vor Augen:
Ihre Performance so gut wie möglich zu unterstützen.



Lieferumfang

Seventy-Two MKII
Stromkabel
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Control Vinyl Records
(2) Serato NoiseMap™ Control-CDs
Serato Pitch 'n Time Download-Karte mit Seriennummer
(2) USB-Kabel
Rane-Stickers
Benutzerhandbuch
Sicherheitshinweise und Garantieinformationen



Kundendienst

Für die neuesten Informationen zu diesem Produkt (Dokumentation, technische Daten,
Systemanforderungen, Informationen zur Kompatibilität etc.) und zur Produktregistrierung
besuchen Sie bitte: dj.rane.com.
Für zusätzlichen Produkt-Support besuchen Sie dj.rane.com/support.




82
Setup
Teile, die nicht unter Einführung > Lieferumfang angegeben sind, sind separat erhältlich.
1.   Besuchen Sie dj.rane.com und melden Sie sich bei Ihrem Konto an. (Erstellen Sie ein Konto, wenn dies
     Ihr erstes Rane-Produkt ist.) Registrieren Sie in Ihrem Konto Ihren Seventy-Two MKII und laden Sie das
     Rane Control Panel herunter.
     Nur für Windows-Benutzer: Die Rane-Systemsteuerung enthält die für Windows erforderlichen Treiber.
2.   WICHTIG: Gelegentlich aktualisieren wir die Firmware des Seventy-Two MKII, um die Leistung zu
     verbessern. Besuchen Sie dj.rane.com, um nach verfügbaren Firmware-Updates zu suchen, vor allem
     nachdem Sie Ihre Software aktualisiert haben (Firmware-Updates können neue Software-Features
     betreffen).
3.   Besuchen Sie serato.com und laden die neueste Version von Serato DJ Pro herunter und installieren
     es.
4.   Verwenden Sie USB-Kabel, um die USB-Buchsen des Rane Twelve (falls verwendet) oder anderer USB-
     MIDI-Controller mit den Twelve/Controller USB-Buchesn des Seventy-Two MKII zu verbinden.
5.   Schließen Sie Audio-Eingangsquellen (Mikrofone, Plattenspieler usw.) an Seventy-Two MKII an.
6.   Schließen Sie Audio-Ausgabegeräte (Kopfhörer, Leistungsverstärker, Lautsprecher usw.) an Seventy-
     Two MKII an.
7.   Verbinden Sie alle Geräte mit Netzsteckdosen und schalten Sie sie in der richtigen Reihenfolge ein:
        • Schalten Sie beim Beginn einer Sitzung (1) die Eingangsquellen, (2) Seventy-Two MKII, (3) die
           Ausgabegeräte ein.
        • Wenn Sie eine Sitzung beenden, schalten Sie (1) die Ausgabegeräte, (2) Seventy-Two MKII und (3)
           die Eingangsquellen aus.
8.   Verbinden Sie den USB-Anschluss des Seventy-Two MKII über ein USB-Kabel mit Ihrem Computer. Öffnen
     Sie Serato DJ Pro und los geht's! Weitere Informationen zur Verwendung von Serato DJ Pro mit Seventy-
     Two MKII finden Sie unter support.serato.com und wählen Rane Seventy-Two MKII aus.

                            Computer                       Mikrofon




Rane Twelve                                                                                  Rane Twelve
(oder andere USB-MIDI-Controller)                                         (oder andere USB-MIDI-Controller)




           Lautsprecher              Booth-Monitoren                    Plattenspieler      Mediaplayer
                                                                                                          83
Funktionen

Oberseite



      36         7    5                        5        7        31
                      6        3         4     6
      37         8                                      8
 38                   18                       18                32
 39              9                                      9
      34
                     19             1              19            33
 35          10                                         10
                      20                       20
      22     11       21                       21       11       25

      23                            16                           26
             12           17                  17        12
 24                                                                   27
 13                                                                   13

                                    2
                     14                            14


            15                 28        28                 15


                          29                  29



                                    30


84
1.  Touchscreen: Das Vollfarb-Multitouch-Display zeigt Informationen, die den aktuellen Betrieb des
    Seventy-Two MKII betreffen. Tippen Sie auf das Display und verwenden Sie die Hardware-
    Steuerelemente, um die Schnittstelle zu bedienen. Bitte lesen Sie den Abschnitt Betrieb >
    Touchscreen für weitere Informationen.
2. Shift: Halten Sie diese Taste gedrückt, um auf sekundäre Funktionen anderer Bedienelemente des
    Seventy-Two MKII zuzugreifen.
3. View/Menu: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um am Touchscreen zur Bibliothekansicht und zur Wellenformansicht
    zu wechseln. Bitte lesen Sie den Abschnitt Betrieb > Touchscreen für weitere Informationen.
    Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste oder halten Sie diese Taste 4 Sekunden lang
    gedrückt, um das Hauptmenü des Seventy-Two MKII anzuzeigen.
4. Effects/Tap: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um sofort die Effektansicht anzuzeigen.
    Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste mehrmals im gewünschten Tempo, um die
    BPM-Rate für Beat-Tempo-Effekte pro Kanal manuell einzustellen.
5. Back: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den vorherigen Bildschirm anzuzeigen. Drücken Sie in der
    Bibliotheksansicht diese Taste, um in den Ebenen der Bibliotheksstruktur zurück zu springen.
    Halten Sie die Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Vorbereitungsbereich im Serato
    DJ Pro zu öffnen.
6. Load/Scroll: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um durch die Listen zu blättern und drücken Sie ihn, um ein
    Element auszuwählen. Berühren Sie diesen Regler in der Wellenformansicht, um am Touchscreen zur
    Bibliotheksansicht zu wechseln.
    Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie diesen Regler, um den aktuell ausgewählten Track im
    Vorbereitungsbereich zu laden.
    Tipp: Drücken Sie diesen Regler zweimal schnell hintereinander, um den gleichen Track auf beide Decks
    zu laden („Instant Doubles“).
7. Deck-Quelle: Stellen Sie diesen Regler auf die gewünschte Audioquelle von diesem Kanal: USB A oder
    B (ein Track, der in der Software auf dieser Ebene spielt), PH/CD (ein Gerät, das an den Deck PH/CD -
    Eingang an der Rückseite angeschlossen ist) oder Aux (ein Gerät, das mit dem Deck Aux In auf der
    Rückseite verbunden ist).
    Hinweis: Wenn Sie PH/CD wählen, stellen Sie die PH/CD-Wahlschalter auf der Rückseite richtig ein.
    Hinweis: Die Bedienelemente eines Decks senden MIDI-Informationen nur, wenn der Deck-
    Quellenwahlschalter auf USB A oder B gestellt ist.
8. Deck Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den Pre-Fader, Pre-EQ-Audiopegel des entsprechenden
    Kanals einzustellen. Die Anzeige neben diesem Regler zeigt den Signalpegel an (reduzieren Sie ihn,
    wenn das Signal zu „clippen“ beginnt und den roten Teil der Anzeige erreicht).
9. Deck EQ High: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die hohen Frequenzen                   Hinweis: Alle EQ- und
    anzupassen.                                                                      Filter-Steuerelemente
10. Deck EQ Mid: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Mittenfrequenzen                   sind „full-kill“.
    einzustellen.
11. Deck EQ Low: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die tiefen (Bass)-Frequenzen einzustellen.
12. Deck LP/HP: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den Filter für das Deck einzustellen. Drehen Sie den Regler
    gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Tiefpassfilter anzulegen. Drehen Sie den Regler im Uhrzeigersinn,
    um einen Hochpassfilter anzuwenden. Stellen Sie ihn auf die mittlere Position („12:00“) ein, um die Filter
    zu deaktivieren.
    Tipp: Die Filter sind standardmäßig vollständig deaktiviert. Sie können die Grenzfrequenzen jedoch
    anpassen, indem Sie zu Main Menu > Mixer Settings > Filter Setup wechseln und Low Pass Min und
    High Pass Max ändern.
13. Pad-Modus-Tasten: Drücken Sie eine dieser Tasten, um den entsprechenden Pad-Modus aufzurufen.
    Drücken Sie einmal, um in den primären Modus (Aufdruck oben) zu wechseln und ein zweites Mal, um
    in den sekundären Modus (Aufdruck unten) zu wechseln. Drücken Sie Shift und eine dieser Tasten,
    um auf die benutzerdefinierten Pad-Modi zuzugreifen. Unter Betrieb > Pad-Modi erfahren Sie, wie Sie
    die Pads in jedem Modus verwenden.
14. Performance-Pads: Je nach aktuellem Pad-Modus besitzen diese Pads unterschiedliche Funktionen
    auf jedem Deck. Verwenden Sie die Pad-Modus-Tasten, um den Pad-Modus auszuwählen. Diese
    Pads sind anschlagsdynamisch (allerdings nur in bestimmten Modi), robust und einfach zu spielen.
    Unter Betrieb > Pad-Modi erfahren Sie, wie Sie die Pads in jedem Modus verwenden.
15. Parameter /: Diese Tasten haben in jedem Pad-Modus unterschiedliche Funktionen. Halten Sie
    Shift gedrückt und verwenden Sie diese Tasten, um auf Sekundärparameter zuzugreifen.

                                                                                                           85
16. Touch FX: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um die X-Y-Touchpad-Funktion auf dem Touchscreen zu aktivieren
    oder zu deaktivieren. Sie können diese Funktion verwenden, um verschiedene Effektparameter zu
    steuern. Bitte lesen Sie den Abschnitt Betrieb > Effekte für weitere Informationen.
17. Effects umschalten: Kippen Sie diesen Schalter vom Körper weg, um die Effekte der Software und des
    Seventy-Two MKII's Flex vorübergehend zu aktivieren. Kippen Sie den Schalter in die andere Richtung,
    um die Effekte zu deaktivieren.
     Ziehen und halten Sie diesen Schalter zum Körper hin, um die Effekte der Software und des Seventy-
     Two MKII vorübergehend anzuzeigen, und lassen Sie den Schalter los, um die Effekte zu deaktivieren.
     Der Schalter kehrt in die mittlere Position zurück.
     Hinweis: Die Effektschalter können je nach Wunsch entfernt und um 180° gedreht werden.
18. Parameter-Regler: Drehen Sie diese Regler, um verschiedene Effektparameter einzustellen. Der
    Parameterregler-Fokus wird auf dem Touchscreen mit einem weißen Caret (Einschaltungszeichen) für
    jede Bank angezeigt.
19. FX 1–3: Drücken Sie jede dieser Tasten, um ihren jeweiligen Softwareeffekt in einer Bank mit drei
    Effekten zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren.
20. Flex FX: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um die internen Effekte des Seventy-Two MKII zu aktivieren oder zu
    deaktivieren.
21. Depth: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um den „Wet-Dry“-Mix der internen Flex FX-Einstellungen auf diesem
    Deck einzustellen.
22. Sampler Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Software-Samplers einzustellen.
23. Sampler LP/HP: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Software-Samplers einzustellen.
    Drehen Sie den Regler gegen den Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Tiefpassfilter anzulegen. Drehen Sie den
    Regler im Uhrzeigersinn, um einen Hochpassfilter anzuwenden. Stellen Sie ihn auf die mittlere Position
    („12:00“) für einen „flachen“ Frequenzgang (kein Filter).
24. Sampler Effects: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um Effekte für den Software-Sampler zu aktivieren oder zu
    deaktivieren.
     Hinweis: Der Sampler muss im Menü "Effects Routing" ausgewählt sein. Weitere Informationen finden
     Sie unter Effekte.
25. Cue Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Cue-Kanals einzustellen.
26. Cue Mix: Drehen Sie den Regler, um im Kopfhörerkanal zwischen Cue und Programm zu wechseln.
    Wenn der Regler ganz nach links gedreht ist, kann nur der Cue-Kanal gehört werden. Wenn der Regler
    ganz nach rechts gedreht ist, ist nur der Programm-Mix zu hören.
27. Split Cue: Wenn dieser Taste in der Position On leuchtet, wird das Kopfhörersignal „aufgeteilt“, so dass
    der Cue-Kanal auf Mono summiert und an den linken Kopfhörerkanal gesendet wird und der
    Programm-Mix auf Mono summiert und an den rechten Kanal gesendet wird. Wenn dieser Taste in der
    Position Off dunkel ist, wird der Cue-Kanal und Programm-Mix „zusammengemischt“. Verwenden Sie
    in beiden Fällen den Cue Mix-Regler, um den Mix der beiden Signale zu steuern.
28. Deck Cue: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das Pre-Fader-Signal dieses Decks an den Cue-Kanal zum
    Monitoring zu senden. Wenn die Taste aktiviert ist, leuchtet sie auf. Um mehrere Kanäle gleichzeitig
    aufzurufen, drücken Sie die Deck Cue-Tasten für beide Decks.
29. Kanal-Fader: Bewegen Sie diesen Fader, um die Lautstärke des entsprechenden Decks einzustellen.
30. Crossfader: Bewegen Sie diesen Fader, um zwischen den Decks zu mischen.
31. Main: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Hauptausgänge ein. Die Anzeige neben
    diesem Regler zeigt den Signalpegel an (reduzieren Sie ihn, wenn das Signal zu „clippen“ beginnt und
    den roten Teil der Anzeige erreicht).
32. Booth: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Booth-Ausgänge ein.
33. Session Out: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Session-Ausgänge ein.
34. Session In: Mit diesem Regler stellen Sie die Ausgabelautstärke der Session-Eingänge ein.
35. Session In Cue: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um das Signal der Session-Eingänge an den Cue-Kanal zur
    Überwachung zu senden. Wenn die Taste aktiviert ist, leuchtet sie auf.
36. Mic 1 Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Mic 1 Eingangs einzustellen. Die
    Anzeige neben diesem Regler zeigt den Signalpegel an (reduzieren Sie ihn, wenn das Signal zu
    „clippen“ beginnt und den roten Teil der Anzeige erreicht).
37. Mic 1 Tone: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Balance zwischen tiefen Frequenzen (Bass) und hohen
    Frequenzen (Treble) des Audiosignals einzustellen, das vom Mic 1-Eingang kommt.

86
38. Mic 1 On/Duck: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Mic 1-Eingang auf der Rückseite zu aktivieren oder
    zu deaktivieren.
    Halten Sie diese Taste 2 Sekunden lang gedrückt, um die „Ducking“ -Funktion zu aktivieren, die die
    Lautstärke aller anderen Eingänge um 10 dB reduziert. Die Taste blinkt, wenn diese Funktion aktiviert
    ist. Drücken Sie diese Taste noch einmal, um diese Funktion und den Mic 1-Eingang zu deaktivieren.
39. Mic 1 Echo: Drücken Sie diese Taste, um den Echoeffekt am Mic 1 Eingangssignal zu aktivieren oder
    zu deaktivieren. Drehen Sie den Mic 1 Echo -Regler an der Vorderseite, um die Stärke des Effekts
    einzustellen.


Rückseite

                                                                 8        8
                                14           13             9        9            11 12
                    2
                                                                                  11 12
                    1          3      3 4 6 5
                                                            10            7
1.  Netzeingang: Während Seventy-Two MKII ausgeschaltet ist, schließen Sie das mitgelieferte Netzkabel
    an diesen Eingang und dann an eine Steckdose an.
2. Netzschalter: Verwenden Sie diesen Schalter, um Seventy-Two MKII ein- oder auszuschalten. Schalten
    Sie Seventy-Two MKII erst ein, nachdem Sie all Ihre Eingabegeräte verbunden haben und bevor Sie Ihren
    Verstärker und Lautsprecher einschalten. Schalten Sie Ihre Verstärker und Lautsprecher aus, bevor Sie
    Ihren Seventy-Two MKII ausschalten.
3. Main Out (XLR): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit Ihren Lautsprechern oder einem Verstärkersystem.
    Verwenden Sie den Master-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke einzustellen.
4. Booth-Ausgang (1/4”/6,35 mm, TRS): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit Booth-Monitoren oder einem
    Booth-Verstärkersystem. Verwenden Sie den Booth-Regler an der Oberseite, um die Lautstärke
    einzustellen.
5. Session Eingang (RCA): Verbinden Sie diese Eingänge mit einem Line-Level-Gerät wie einem anderen
    Mixer, einem CD-Player, einem Drumcomputer usw. Das Signal wird direkt zum Programmmix
    gesendet. Drehen Sie den Session In-Regler auf der Oberseite, um den Eingangspegel zu steuern.
6. Session Ausgang (RCA): Verbinden Sie diese Ausgänge mit einem anderen Mixer, Aufnahmegerät usw.
    Der Programmmix wird an diese Ausgänge gesendet. Drehen Sie den Session Out-Regler auf der
    Oberseite, um den Pegel zu steuern.
7. Deck PH/CD In (Cinch): Schließen Sie diese Eingänge an eine externe Audioquelle oder an einen
    Plattenspieler, CD-Player oder ein anderes Line-Level-Gerät an. Denken Sie daran, den entsprechenden
    PH/CD-Wahlschalter auf die richtige Position zu stellen und den Deck-Quellenwahlschalter für dieses
    Deck auf PH/CD zu stellen, um sein Audiosignal auf diesem Deck abzuspielen.
8. PH/CD-Wahlschalter: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf die richtige Position, je nachdem, welches Gerät
    an die PH/CD-Eingänge des entsprechenden Decks angeschlossen ist. Wenn Sie Phono-Level-
    Plattenspieler verwenden, stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf PH, um eine zusätzliche Verstärkung zu
    ermöglichen, die bei Phono-Level-Signalen notwendig ist. Wenn Sie ein Line-Level-Gerät, wie etwa einen
    Line-Level-Plattenspieler, einen CD-Player oder einen Sampler, verwenden, stellen Sie diesen Schalter
    auf CD.
9. Phono Grounds: Wenn Sie Phono-Level-Plattenspieler mit einem Erdungsdraht verwenden, verbinden
    Sie den Draht mit diesen Klemmen. Wenn Sie ein tiefes Brummgeräusch oder Summen hören, könnte
    dies bedeuten, dass Ihre Plattenspieler nicht geerdet sind.
    Hinweis: Einige Plattenspieler haben einen im Cinch-Anschluss integrierten Erdungsdraht. In diesem
    Fall muss nichts an die Erdungsklemmen angeschlossen werden.
10. Deck Aux In (Cinch): Verbinden Sie diese Eingänge mit einer externen Line-Level-Audioquelle. Denken
    Sie daran, den Deck-Quellenwahlschalter für dieses Deck auf Aux zu stellen, um sein Audiosignal auf
    diesem Deck zu spielen.

                                                                                                       87
11. Mic Eingänge 1–2 (XLR / 1/4”/6,35 mm, TS): Verbinden Sie Mikrofone oder Line-Level-Geräte mit
    diesen Mono-Eingängen. Ihre Mono-Audiosignale werden aufgeteilt und direkt an den Stereo-
    Programm-Mix und den Cue-Kanal geleitet. Wenn Sie eine Stereo-Line-Eingabe bevorzugen, kann
    Session In verwendet werden.
12. Line/Mic-Wahlschalter: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf die richtige Position, je nachdem, welches
    Gerät an die Mic Eingänge 1–2 angeschlossen ist. Wenn Sie ein Mikrofon anschließen, stellen Sie
    diesen Schalter auf Mic. Wenn Sie ein Line-Level-Gerät wie eine Tastatur oder einen Sampler
    verwenden, stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Line.
13. Twelve/Controller USB-Anschlüsse (USB Typ-A): Verwenden Sie USB-Kabel, um diese USB-
    Anschlüsse mit Ihren Controllern wie Twelve oder einem Standard-USB-MIDI-Controller zu verbinden.
    Wichtig: Schließen Sie keine USB-Laufwerke an diese Anschlüsse an. Wenn Sie die Einstellung des
    Quellenwahlschalters ändern, wird das Laufwerk vom angeschlossenen Computer ausgeworfen, was
    den Inhalt beschädigen könnte und somit vermieden werden soll.
14. USB-Anschlüsse (USB Typ-B): Verwenden Sie USB-Kabel, um diese Anschlüsse mit einem freien
    USB-Anschluss Ihres Computers zu verbinden. Diese Verbindungen senden und empfangen MIDI-
    Steuerinformationen an - oder von - einem Computer.
    Hinweis: Stellen Sie sicher, dass Sie das Rane Control-Panel von dj.rane.com heruntergeladen und
    installiert haben.


Vorderseite


                                            7         6
                                                                         9
                      2        3                                                  1
                      5        4
                                                                        10
                                                      8
1.   Kopfhörerausgänge (1/4”, 1/8” / 6,35 mm, 3.5 mm, TRS): Schließen Sie Ihren 1/4" oder 1/8"-Kopfhörer
     (6,35 mm oder 3,5 mm) zum Cueing und Mix-Monitoring an diesen Ausgang an.
2.   Mic 2 Ein: Ist On eingestellt, dann ist der Mic 2 Eingang auf der Rückseite aktiv und sein Audiosignal wird
     direkt zum Programm-Mix und Cue Mix geroutet. Ist Auseingestellt, wird der Mic 2 Eingang deaktiviert.
3.   Mic 2 Level: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Lautstärke des Mic 2 Eingangs einzustellen.
4.   Mic 2 Tone: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Balance zwischen tiefen Frequenzen (Bass) und hohen
     Frequenzen (Treble) des Audiosignals einzustellen, das vom Mic 2-Eingang kommt.
5.   Mic 1 Echo: Drehen Sie diesen Regler, um die Stärke des Echoeffekts am Mic 1 Eingangssignal
     einzustellen. Drücken Sie die Taste Mic 1 Echo auf dem oberen Paneel, um diesen Effekt zu aktivieren
     oder zu deaktivieren.
6.   Spannungsregler: Mit diesem Regler können Sie die Spannung des Crossfaders einstellen. Drehen Sie den
     Regler nach links, um den Crossfader zu lockern und ein leichtes Bediengefühl zu ermöglichen. Drehen Sie
     den Regler nach rechts, um den Crossfader zu festigen und ein schwereres Bediengefühl zu schaffen.
7.  Contour Controls: Passt die Steigung der Crossfader-Kurve an. Drehen Sie den Regler nach links für
    sanfte Übergänge (Mixing) oder nach rechts für abrupte Übergänge (Scratching). Die Mittelposition ist
    eine typische Einstellung für Club-Performances.
8. Fader Reverse: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf Ein, um die Richtung („Polarity“) des entsprechenden
    Faders umzukehren. Stellen Sie es auf Aus, um die konventionelle Fader-Polarität zu verwenden.
9. Deck Swap: Stellen Sie diesen Schalter auf On, um den linken und rechten Kanal-Fader, der vom
    Seventy-Two MKII gesteuert wird, zu vertauschen. Stellen Sie es auf Aus, um die konventionelle
    Deckkonfiguration zu verwenden.
10. Footswitch-Eingang (1/4”/6,35 mm, TRS): Schließen Sie hier einen Fußschalter an, mit dem Sie Effekte
    aktivieren oder deaktivieren können. Sie können dies auch anderen Funktionen zuweisen. Dieser
    Eingang unterstützt einen Fußschalter mit drei Schaltern und passivem Kontakt.

88
Betrieb

Touchscreen
Um zwischen den Ansichten Waveform und Library umzuschalten, drücken Sie die Taste View/Menu.

Wellenformansicht
In der Wellenformansicht werden die Spursignale vertikal angezeigt, Kanal 1                   1
auf der linken Seite und Kanal 2 auf der rechten Seite. Die große Wellenform
repräsentiert einen Abschnitt des aktuellen Tracks. Die kleinere Wellenform    2
repräsentiert die gesamte aktuelle Spur.
1.   Zeit: Zeigt die Zeit an, die dem aktuellen Track verbleibt.                3
2.   Key/Key Lock: Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und tippen Sie auf dieses
     Symbol, um zwischen Key- und der Key Lock zu wechseln. Wenn Key
     ausgewählt ist, wird die Tonart des aktuellen Tracks angezeigt und Sie 4
     können tippen, um Key Sync zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren. Wenn
     die Key Lock ausgewählt ist, wird ein Key Lock-Symbol (bzw. falls
     installiert, das Serato Pitch 'n Time-Symbol) angezeigt und Sie können
     tippen, um Key Lock zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren. Wenn eine 5
     Option aktiviert ist, wird das Feld hervorgehoben.
3.   Übersicht: Die kleinere Wellenform stellt einen Überblick über den
     gesamten aktuellen Track dar. Sie können während der Wiedergabe
     mit Ihrem Finger durch den Track „scrubben“. Sie können auch durch
                                                                                6
     Zusammendrücken von zwei Fingern auf die größere Wellenform
     zoomen oder durch Auseinanderziehen der Finger wieder                                     7
     herauszoomen.
     Hinweis: Wenn in Serato DJ Pro die Option Nadelsuche
     Deaktivieren aktiviert wurde, müssen Sie Shift gedrückt halten, um
     durch den Track zu scrubben.
4.   Song-Position: Position des Abspielkopfes im aktuellen Track.
5.   Hot Cues: Zeigt Hot Cues nach Farbe an.
6.   Sync: Wenn Sync aktiviert ist, wird das Feld hervorgehoben und die BPM-Indikatoren werden blau
     dargestellt. Um die Synchronisierung zu aktivieren/deaktivieren, halten Sie Shift gedrückt und tippen
     Sie auf das Symbol für einen der beiden Kanäle.
7.   BPM: Schläge pro Minute des aktuellen Tracks.
Hinweis: Wenn Load/Scroll Touch eingeschaltet ist und Sie sich in der Wellenformansicht befinden,
können Sie durch Berühren des Reglers Load/Scroll schnell die Bibliotheksansicht aufrufen. Unter
Hauptmenü erfahren Sie, wie Sie diese Option ein- oder ausschalten können.


Bibliotheksansicht                                                         Touchscreen mit erweiterter
                                                                               Bibliotheksansicht
In der Bibliotheksansicht zeigt das Display die Bibliothek des
angeschlossenen Computers an. Wenn Seventy-Two MKII mit zwei
Computern verbunden ist, wird jener Computer angezeigt, dem die
beiden Decks zuletzt zugewiesen wurden.
Um den Ansichtsmodus zu ändern, wischen Sie auf dem Pulldown-
Menüsymbol oben in der Tracklistenansicht nach unten und tippen Sie
dann auf das Symbol für den gewünschten Modus - Einfache Ansicht
oder Erweiterte Ansicht.
Um die Tracks zu durchsuchen, drehen Sie den Load/Scroll-Regler.
Um schnell zu scrollen, drücken Sie die Shift-Taste und drehen Sie
den Load/Scroll-Regler.
Um einen Crate zu öffnen oder einen Track auf ein Deck zu laden,
drücken Sie den Load/Scroll-Regler.
Um eine Ebene zurück zu springen, drücken Sie Back.

                                                                                                        89
Hauptmenü
Um in das Hauptmenü zu gelangen, drücken Sie Shift und View/Menu, oder halten Sie View/
Menu 4 Sekunden lang gedrückt.

Mixer-Einstellungen: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die folgenden Einstellungen zu bearbeiten.
 •   Audio Out: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Einstellungen Hauptausgang und Mic 1 Clean
     Feed und Deck Balance zu bearbeiten.
     Hinweis: Wenn Clean Feed eingeschaltet ist, gibt das Mic 1 bei der Aufnahme in Serato DJ
     Pro keinen Ton aus.
 •   Deck Settings: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Einstellungen Phono 1/2 Empfindlichkeit
     und Tone XOver 1/2 zu bearbeiten.
     Hinweis: Stellen Sie Phono Sensitivity auf die Einstellungen ein, die vom Hersteller Ihres
     Tonabnehmers empfohlen werden.
 •   Filter Setup: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Deck 1/2 Resonance, Sampler Resonance,
     die Grenzfrequenz für die LOW-Position der Filterregler (Low Pass Min) oder die
     Grenzfrequenz für die HI-Position der Filterregler (High Pass Max) zu bearbeiten.
 •   Pad Setup: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Pad-Empfindlichkeitseinstellungen zu
     bearbeiten.
 •   Headphone Setup: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Tone-Kopfhörereinstellung zu bearbeiten.
 •   Mic 1 Setup: Wählen Sie diese Option, um das Feedback für das Mikrofonecho (Mic 1 Echo
     Fdbk), den Ducking-Schwellwert (Mic 1 Duck Thresh) oder die Ducking-Haltezeit (Mic 1 Duck
     Hold) zu bearbeiten.
 •   Touch FX Setup: Wählen Sie diese Option, um den Button-Modus zu bearbeiten, der die
     Funktion der Touch FX–Taste bestimmt. Im Touch FX-Modus, dem Standardmodus, öffnen
     Sie durch Tippen der Taste den Touch FX-Bildschirm. Die LED der Taste wird die ganze Zeit
     dauerhaft grün leuchten; sie leuchtet hell, wenn der Touch FX–Bildschirm geöffnet ist,und
     schwach, wenn dieser nicht geöffnet ist. Im Tap-Modus können Sie durch Tippen der Taste
     das FX-Tempo für das Deck im Fokus einstellen und wenn Sie Shift gedrückt halten, während
     Sie die Taste drücken, wird der Touch FX–Bildschirm geöffnet. Die LED der Taste leuchtet nur
     dann, wenn diese gedrückt wird.


Flex FX: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die internen Flex FX-Einstellungen anzuzeigen und zu
bearbeiten.
 •       Beats Mult.: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Inkremente festzulegen, um die die Flex FX-
         Timings angepasst werden können.
     o     Im Extended-Modus können Sie für Flex FX ein Standardtiming von 1/32 bis 32 Schlägen
           sowie „Dotted“- und „Triplet“-Varianten der jeweiligen Timingeinstellungen festlegen.
     o     Im Simple-Modus, dem Standardmodus, können Sie Flex FX-Schläge nur auf
           Standardtiming (kein Triplet- oder Dotted-Timing) einstellen.
     o     Im No Dotted-Modus umfassen die Flex FX-Schläge Standard- und Triplet-Timing, aber
           kein Dotted-Timing.
     o     Im No Triplet-Modus umfassen die Flex FX-Schläge Standard- und Dotted-Timing, aber
           kein Triplet-Timing.
 •   FX List: Sie können jeden unter der Option Beats Mult. aufgeführten Effekt bearbeiten.
     o     Um einen Effekt aus der Favoritenliste hinzuzufügen oder zu entfernen, tippen Sie auf
           den Kreis auf der rechten Seite des Bildschirms. Wenn der Kreis grün ist, wird der Effekt in
           der Liste der Flex FX in der Effektansicht angezeigt. Wenn der Kreis leer ist und der
           Effektname ausgegraut ist, wird der Effekt nicht mehr in der Liste angezeigt.
     o     Um die Standardeinstellungen des internen Flex FX anzupassen, tippen Sie auf das
           Schraubenschlüssel-symbol. Alle vorgenommenen Änderungen werden im Mixer gespeichert.

90
Cut-In Adjust: Wählen Sie diese Option, um das
Einstellungsmenü für Cut-In Adjust aufzurufen. Dies steuert die
Größe des Totraums zwischen den geschlossenen und offenen
Positionen eines Faders. Wählen Sie den Fader, den Sie
einstellen möchten, bewegen Sie dann den ausgewählten Fader
an die gewünschte Position und drücken Sie Festlegen, um die
Einstellung zu speichern.




Footswitch: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Zuweisungen für Footswitch 1/2/3 festzulegen.
 •   Bei Zuweisung zu MIDI, wird beim Tippen des Fußschalters eine in Ihrer Serato-Software
     programmierte MIDI-Funktion ausgeführt.
 •   Bei Zuweisung zu FX 1 Latch oder FX 2 Latch wird beim Tippen des Fußschalters ein Effekt
     für Deck 1 oder 2 gespeichert.
 •   Bei Zuweisung zu FX 1 Moment oder FX 2 Moment werden bei Betätigung eines Fußpedals
     vorübergehend Effekte für Deck 1 oder 2 ausgelöst.
 •   Bei Zuweisung zu Tap wird beim Tippen des Fußschalters das FX-Tempo für das derzeit auf
     dem Touchscreen im Fokus befindliche Deck festgelegt.


Display: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Einstellungen für die Touchscreen–Anzeige anzuzeigen
und zu bearbeiten.
 •   Screen Brightness: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Helligkeit der Anzeige anzupassen.
 •   Scroll Touch: Wählen Sie diese Option, um festzulegen, ob eine Berührung des Load/Scroll-
     Reglers Sie von der Wellenformanzeige zur Bibliotheksanzeige umleiten soll.
 •   Pad Mode Display: Wählen Sie diese Option, um festzulegen, ob Performance Pad-Funktionen
     auf dem Touchscreen angezeigt werden, wenn eine Pad Mode–Taste gedrückt wird.
 •   Startup View: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Standardanzeige auszuwählen, wenn Sie den
     Seventy-Two MKII (Waveform, Library oder Effects) einschalten.
     Hinweis: Eine Verbindung mit Serato ist zum Start in der Wellenform- oder Bibliotheksansicht
     erforderlich. Wenn keine Verbindung mit Serato besteht, wird der Seventy-Two MKII in der
     Effektansicht gestartet.


Wiederherstellen der Standardeinstellungen

Um die ursprünglichen Einstellungen für ein bestimmtes Menüfeld wiederherzustellen, wählen
Sie zunächst eine der Optionen im Hauptmenü aus. Das letzte Element eines jedem Menüfeldes ist
Restore Defaults. Wenn Sie dieses Element auswählen, erscheint eine Popupmeldung. Wählen Sie
Restore, um zu den ursprünglichen Einstellungen zurückzukehren, oder wählen Sie Cancel, um
zurückzugehen.


Um alle Seventy-Two MKII für alle Menüfelder gleichzeitig auf ihre ursprünglichen
Einstellungen zurückzusetzen, gehen Sie zuerst ins Hauptmenü. Wischen Sie dann auf dem
Touchscreen nach oben und es erscheint ein Listenelement mit dem Titel Factory Reset. Wenn Sie
dieses Element auswählen, erscheint eine Popupmeldung. Wählen Sie Restore, um alle
Einstellungen auf ihre Standardeinstellungen zurückzusetzen, oder wählen Sie Cancel, um
zurückzugehen.
                                                                                               91
Effekte

Effektansicht

Drücken Sie die Effects/Tap-Taste, um die Effektansicht aufzurufen, in der Sie die Effekte für beide FX-
Banken (A und B) bearbeiten und kontrollieren können, welche Effekte auf welchem Deck aktiviert werden.

Jede Effekt-Bank enthält bis zu 3 Software-Effekte sowie die internen
Flex FX für insgesamt bis zu 8 Effekte, die hinzugefügt und an Deck 1,
Deck 2 und den Sampler weitergeleitet werden können.
Standardmäßig werden Effekte an Deck 1 und Deck 2 geroutet.

So ändern Sie das Effekt-Routing:
1.   Tippen Sie auf die blauen 1/2/S-Symbole oben im Display, um
     das Routing-Menü aufzurufen.
2.   Wählen Sie, wohin Sie die Effekte routen möchten und drücken
     OK, um zur vorherigen Seite zurückzukehren. Beide Effektbänke
     können auf ein oder mehrere Decks geroutet werden.

So fügen Sie Effekte hinzu und verwenden sie:
1.   Drücken Sie die Effects-Taste, um in die Effektansicht zu gelangen.
2.   Tippen Sie auf den Touchscreen, um den gewünschten Effekt
     auszuwählen und drücken den Parameterregler, um in den FX-
     Auswahlmodus zu wechseln.
3.   Drehen Sie den Parameterregler, um durch die Liste der Effekte zu blättern und drücken ihn
     anschließend, um den Effekt auf diesen Slot zu laden.
4.   Drücken Sie die FX 1–3 oder die Flex FX-Tasten, um den Effekt in der Kette zu aktivieren. Effekte
     werden nacheinander in der Kette angewendet (FX1 > FX2 > FX3 > Flex FX).
5.   Verwenden Sie die Effekt- Wahlschalter, um die Effekte auf Deck 1 und 2 anzuwenden. Drücken Sie
     den Kippschalter von Ihnen weg, um einen Effekt zu speichern oder kippen bzw. halten Sie den
     Kippschalter zu Ihnen, um einen Effekt auszulösen.
     Drücken Sie die Taste Sampler-Effekte, um die Effekte auf den Sampler anzuwenden.


So bearbeiten Sie einen Software-Effekt:
1.   Tippen Sie auf den Effekt im Display.
2.   Drehen Sie den Parameterregler, um mit der Bearbeitung des ausgewählten Parameters zu
     beginnen. Durch Drücken des Parameterreglers wird in den Software-FX-Auswahlmodus für den
     Effekt im Fokus umgeschaltet.

So bearbeiten Sie interne Flex FX:
1.   Tippen Sie, um den Parameterregler auf den gewünschten Effekt zu fokussieren und verwenden Sie
     dann den Parameterregler zum Einstellen. Tippen Sie zweimal auf den gewünschten Effekt, um die
     standardmäßigen Flex FX-Einstellungen anzupassen. Alle vorgenommenen Änderungen werden im
     Mixer gespeichert.
2.   Um das Effekt-Timing zu bearbeiten, tippen Sie auf das Timing und drehen Sie den Parameterregler.
     Hinweis: Die Zeitanpassung erfolgt pro Bank. Für den Beat Breaker und Reverb Flex FX ist der
     anpassbare Parameter nicht Zeit sondern Musternummer bzw. Decay-Prozentsatz.

     Tipp: Halten Sie nach der Auswahl der Beat Breaker-Musternummer Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie
     den Parameter-Regler, um das Muster zu bearbeiten. Nehmen Sie die Bearbeitung vor, indem Sie
     den Parameter-Regler drücken, um Blöcke im Muster anzuheben bzw. abzusenken. Drücken Sie
     Shift und den Parameter-Regler erneut, um den Bearbeitungsmodus zu beenden. Beachten Sie,
     dass beim Ausschalten nur die Muster 11-16 im Mixer gespeichert werden.

92
Touch FX

Drücken Sie die Touch FX-Taste, um den Touch FX-Bildschirm aufzurufen, auf dem Sie durch bloße
Berührung die Effekte auf Deck 1 oder 2 aktivieren oder manipulieren können.


Um auszuwählen, auf welches Deck FX anzuwenden ist, tippen Sie auf den Pfeil des
entsprechenden Decks. Die FX–Tasten für die zu diesem Deck gerouteten Effekte werden
hervorgehoben.


Um zum Deck geroutete Decks zu aktivieren und manipulieren, bewegen Sie Ihren Finger über
die Anzeige. Durch die Bewegung entlang der Y-Achse wird ein Hochpass- (nach oben) oder ein
Tiefpass- (nach unten) Filter angewendet. Durch eine Bewegung entlang der X-Achse wird der
Time-Parameter für aktive Flex FX verändert. Der Time-Parameter für den Flex FX wird am unteren
Rand des Touch FX-Bildschirms angezeigt und aktualisiert, wenn Sie eine Bewegung nach links
oder rechts auf der X-Achse ausführen. Sobald Sie Ihren Finger vom Touchscreen nehmen, wird der
Filter deaktiviert und das FX-Timing kehrt zur ursprünglichen Einstellung zurück. Sie können den
Standardparameter für Time über den Touch FX-Bildschirm ändern, indem Sie darauf tippen und
am Parameter-Regler drehen.
Hinweis: Für den Beat Breaker und Reverb Flex FX ist der anpassbare Parameter nicht Zeit
sondern Musternummer bzw. Decay-Prozentsatz.

Hinweis: Sie können die Beat Breaker-Bearbeitung über den Touch FX-Bildschirm vornehmen,
indem Sie auf die Musternummer tippen und dann auf Shift und den Parameter–Regler drücken.
Unter Effekte > Effektansicht erfahren Sie mehr dazu.


Um den auf dem Deck aktivierten Flex-Effekt zu ändern, tippen Sie auf den Namen des Effekts,
drücken den Parameter-Regler zum Aufrufen des FX-Auswahlmodus und drehen Sie dann den
Parameter-Regler, um durch die Liste der Effekte zu blättern. Drücken Sie den Parameter-Regler
erneut, um den FX-Auswahlmodus zu verlassen.




                                                                                             93
Pad-Modi

In diesem Kapitel werden die verschiedenen Pad-Modi
beschrieben. Jedes Deck hat acht Pads, die sich stets in
einem dieser Modi befinden. Die Pads eines Decks können
sich in einem anderen Modus befinden. Drücken Sie eine der             1       2       3       4
Pad Modus-Tasten, um in den entsprechenden Pad-Modus
auf diesem Deck zu wechseln. Jede Pad-Modustaste
wechselt bei jedem Drücken zwischen zwei Modi.                         5       6       7       8

Tipp: Drücken Sie in jedem Pad-Modus Shift und eine der
Pad-Modus-Tasten, um auf zusätzliche Modi zuzugreifen
oder benutzerdefinierte Modi zu verwenden.




Bei eingeschaltetem Pad Mode Display wird durch Drücken einer Pad
Modus-Tasten die Funktion eines jeden Performance-Pad angezeigt, wenn
diese im ausgewählten Modus betrieben werden. In der Wellenformansicht,
Effektansicht oder auf dem Touch FX-Bildschirm erscheint diese Anzeige
unten auf dem Touchscreen. Nach Tippen an beliebiger Stelle in der Anzeige
verbleibt diese auf dem Touchscreen, ansonsten verschwindet diese nach 5
Sekunden. Unter Hauptmenü erfahren Sie, wie diese Funktion ein- bzw.
ausgeschaltet wird.




Cue
Im Cue-Modus weist jedes Pad einen Hot Cue-Punkt zu oder lässt den Track zu diesem Hot Cue-Punkt
zurückspringen.

Um in den Cue-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Cue / Pitch Play, so dass es weiß leuchtet.

Um einen Hot-Cue-Punkt zuzuweisen, drücken Sie ein unbeleuchtetes Pad an der gewünschten Stelle in
Ihrem Track. Das Pad leuchtet auf, wenn es zugewiesen ist (mit der entsprechenden Farbe, falls verfügbar).

Um zu einem Hot-Cue-Punkt zu springen, drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad.

Um einen zugewiesenen Hot Cue-Punkt zu löschen, drücken Sie die Shift und das entsprechende Pad.




94
Pitch Play
Im Pitch Play-Modus spielt jedes Pad den Track eines                       Aufwärts
Hot-Cue-Punkts in einer anderen Transposition (in
Halbtönen einstellbar). Das Serato Pitch'n Time DJ           +4          +5          +6          +7
Expansion Pack muss installiert sein, um diesen Modus     Halbtöne    semitones   Halbtöne    Halbtöne
zu verwenden. Im Cue-Modus erfahren Sie, wie Sie Hot-
Cue-Punkte zuweisen.
Hinweis: Im Lieferumfang Ihres Seventy-Two MKII ist           0          +1          +2          +3
eine Serato Pitch 'n Time -Download-Karte mit             (Original
                                                                       Halbton    Halbtöne    Halbtöne
Seriennummer enthalten.                                   Tonhöhe)

Um in den Pitch-Play-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie
Cue / Pitch Play, so dass es grün leuchtet.                                  Mitte
Um auszuwählen, welcher Hot-Cue-Punkt verwendet
werden soll, drücken Sie Shift und ein schwach               0          +1          +2          +3
beleuchtetes Pad.                                         (Original
                                                                       Halbton    Halbtöne    Halbtöne
                                                          Tonhöhe)
Um den Transpositionsbereich auszuwählen, den die
Pads verwenden, verwenden Sie die Parameter /-
Tasten (siehe Diagramme).                                    -4          -3          -2          -1
                                                          Halbtöne    Halbtöne    Halbtöne    semitone
Um die Tonart des aktuellen Tracks nach unten oder
oben zu verschieben, drücken Sie die Taste Shift bzw.
die Tasten Parameter /.
                                                                           Abwärts
Um den Track vom Hot-Cue-Punkt abzuspielen,
drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad. Jedes Pad entspricht
                                                                                                  0
einer spezifischen Transposition (in Halbtonschritten) je -3             -2          -1
                                                                                              (Original
nach dem aktuellen Bereich der Tranposition (siehe Halbtöne           Halbtöne     Halbton
                                                                                              Tonhöhe)
Diagramme). Das Pad ohne Transposition (ursprüngliche
Tonhöhe) leuchtet weiß.

                                                             -7          -6          -5          -4
                                                          Halbtöne    Halbtöne    Halbtöne    Halbtöne




Auto-Loop

Im Autoloop-Modus triggert oder gibt jedes Pad einen Autoloop mit unterschiedlicher Länge frei. Das Loop-
Gitter in der Software bestimmt die Größe des Loops.

Um den Autoloop-Modus zu aktivieren, drücken Sie Auto Loop / Man Loop, so dass die Anzeige
dunkelblau leuchtet.

Um zu ändern, welche acht Längen (in der Software) für die Autoloops angezeigt werden, drücken Sie
einen der Parameter /-Tasten. Das Pad-Layout wird verschoben, um es anzupassen.

Um einen Auto-Loop rückwärts oder vorwärts zu verschieben, drücken Sie Shift und die jeweiligen
Parameter /-Tasten.




                                                                                                      95
Manueller Loop

Im manuellen Loop-Modus lässt jedes Pad den Track 1                  2            3            4
zurück zu einem Loop springen, die Sie zuvor erstellt und
gespeichert haben. Die Pad-Layouts für die zwei Bänke     Loop 1         Loop 2    Loop 3          Loop 4
sind identisch.

Um den manuellen Loop-Modus zu aktivieren, drücken 5                 6            7            8
Sie Auto Loop / Man Loop, so dass die Anzeige grün    Set               Set           Loop
leuchtet.                                                                                          Reloop
                                                    Loop In           Loop Out        On/Off
Um eine Loop zu erstellen, drücken Sie Pad 5, um den
Loop In-Punkt einzustellen und anschließend Pad 6, um
den Loop Out-Punkt einzustellen und den Loop zu
aktivieren.

Um einen Loop zu speichern, während er aktiv ist, drücken Sie ein unbeleuchtetes Pad in der oberen
Reihe (Pads 1–4). Sie können dies unabhängig davon tun, auf welche Weise der Loop erstellt wurde
(Autoloop-Modus, manueller Loop-Modus etc.).

Um einen gespeicherten Loop zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad in
der oberen Reihe (Pads 1–4).

Um einen gespeicherten Loop zu löschen, drücken Sie Shift und ein leuchtendes Pad in der oberen
Reihe (Pads 1–4).

Um den zuletzt aktivierten Loop zu aktivieren bzw. zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie Pad 7.

Um den zuletzt aktivierten Loop sofort wieder zu reaktivieren („reloop“), drücken Sie Pad 8.

Um die Länge eines Loops zu halbieren oder zu verdoppeln, drücken Sie die Parameter / Tasten.

Um einen Loop rückwärts oder vorwärts zu verschieben, drücken Sie Shift und die jeweiligen Parameter
/ -Tasten.


Manueller Loop 2
Um den Modus Manueller Loop 2 aufzurufen, halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken dann auf Auto Loop / Man
Loop (2), so dass es in diesem Modus gelb aufleuchtet. In diesem Modus werden Pads 1–4 jeweils zur
Aktivierung oder Deaktivierung von Loops 5–8 verwendet.



Roll

Im Roll-Modus löst jedes Pad einen temporären Loop-Roll aus. Das Loslassen des Pads stoppt die Loop-
Roll und wechselt zur normalen Wiedergabe an den Punkt, an dem die Wiedergabe sich befinden würde,
wenn keine Loop-Roll getriggert worden wäre (so als ob der Track normal wiedergegeben worden wäre).
Hinweis: Deaktivieren Sie Show Beat Jump Controls im Serato Setup-Menü, um auf 8 Loop-Rolls
gleichzeitig zuzugreifen. Sie können in der Software auch die festgelegten Loop-Größen anzeigen und
bearbeiten.

Um in den Roll-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Roll / Pad FX, so dass es türkis leuchtet.

Um einen Loop-Roll auszulösen, halten Sie ein Pad gedrückt.

Um zu ändern, welche acht Längen (in der Software) für die Loop-Rolls angezeigt werden, drücken
Sie einen der Parameter /-Tasten. Das Pad-Layout wird verschoben, um es anzupassen.

Um einen Loop-Roll rückwärts oder vorwärts zu verschieben, drücken Sie Shiftund die jeweiligen
Parameter /-Tasten.




96
Pad FX
Im Pad FX-Modus wählen und aktivieren die Pads
                                                        1             2            3            4
Effekte. Die obere Reihe der Pads wählt den Effekttyp
und die untere Reihe triggert und steuert die Länge des   Vinyl
                                                                      Backspin         Gate         Echo
Effekts.                                                  Brake

Um in den Pad FX-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie
Roll / Pad FX, so dass es gelb leuchtet.        5                     6            7            8
                                                            Size 1        Size 2       Size 3       Size 4
Um die Vinyl-Bremseffekt zu wählen, drücken Pad 1.
Wenn der Vinyl-Bremseffekt durch die untere Pad-Reihe
ausgelöst wird, verlangsamt sich das Audiosignal, als ob
der Plattenteller gestoppt wurde und blendet nach der
ausgewählten Zeit aus.

Um den Backspin-Effekt zu wählen, drücken Sie Pad 2. Wenn der Backspin-Effekt durch die untere Pad-
Reihe ausgelöst wird, wird das Audio-signal rückwärts und beschleunigt wiedergegeben, als ob ein
Plattenteller rückwärts gedreht wurde und blendet nach der ausgewählten Zeit aus.

Um den Gate-Effekt zu wählen, drücken Pad 3. Wenn der Gate-Effekt durch die untere Pad-Reihe
ausgelöst wird, wird ein zeitbasierter Gate-Effekt in der gewählten Größe auf das Audiosignal angewendet.

Um die Echo-Effekt zu wählen, drücken Pad 4. Wenn der Echo-Effekt durch die untere Pad-Reihe
ausgelöst wird, wird das Echo bis zum Ausfaden in der gewählten Größe auf das Audiosignal angewendet.
Hinweis: Der Echo-Effekt kann mit anderen Effekten kombiniert werden. Alle anderen Effekte sind exklusiv.

Um den ausgewählten Effekt auszulösen, drücken Sie einen der Pads 5–8. Jedes Pad aktiviert den Effekt
sofort in einer eingestellten Länge, die von Pad 5 (kürzeste Zeitspanne) bis Pad 8 (längste Zeitspanne)
zunimmt. Wenn ein Effekt ausgelöst wird, blinkt das ausgewählte Pad.
Hinweis: Wenn Sie einen neuen Pad-Modus auswählen, werden alle derzeit aktiven Pad FX auf diesem
Deck deaktiviert.



Sampler

Im Sampler-Modus steuern die Pads den Sampler in der Software. Die Pads lösen jeweils ein Sample mit
einer bestimmten Lautstärke aus (sie können das Sample und seine Lautstärke in der Software zuweisen).

Um in den Sampler-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Sampler / Fader FX, so dass es lila aufleuchtet.

Um ein Sample zuzuweisen, heben Sie das gewünschte Sample zuerst in Ihrer Bibliothek hervor. Dann
halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken auf ein Pad, das einem leeren Sampler-Slot entspricht. Die
Lautstärke des Sampler-Slots kann in Serato angepasst werden.

Um ein Sample abzuspielen, drücken Sie ein beleuchtetes Pad. Das Pad blinkt, während das Sample
abgespielt wird.

Um die Wiedergabe eines Samples anzuhalten, drücken Sie Shift und ein Pad während der
Wiedergabe.

Um durch die Sample-Bänke zu schalten, drücken Sie die Tasten Parameter /.

Um durch die Sampler-Ausgänge zu schalten, drücken Sie die Taste Shift und die Tasten Parameter
/.




                                                                                                             97
Fader FX

Im Fader-FX-Modus aktivieren/deaktivieren die Pads die 1            2             3             4
Stummschaltung des Deck-Audiosignals und emulieren 1-Click              2-Click       3-Click       4-Click
auf diese Weise Crossfader-Bewegungen zum Deck. Ein        Flare         Flare         Flare         Flare
„Klick“ ist eine Bewegung des Crossfaders zu einem
Deck hin („offen“) und dann von diesem Deck weg
(„geschlossen“). DJs verwenden Klicks in verschiedenen 5            6
                                                                      2-to-1
                                                                                  7             8
rhythmischen Mustern (oft in Verbindung mit Scratchen),   Trans-
                                                                    Alternator    Tri-forms          Uzi
um verschiedene Effekte zu erzeugen.                     formers
                                                                      Baby
Um in den Fader FX-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie
Sampler / Fader FX, so dass es grün leuchtet.

Um einen Fader-Effekt auszulösen, drücken Sie eines der Pads 1–8.

Um einen Effekt umzukehren, halten Sie die Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie eines der Pads 1–8.



Flip
Wenn Sie das Serato Flip Expansion Pack erworben
haben, können Sie auf den Flip-Controller zugreifen,
indem Sie Shift gedrückt halten und Sampler / Fader     Flip 1         Flip 2        Flip 3        Flip 4
FX (4) drücken. Wenn Sie das Flip Expansion Pack
nicht gekauft haben, wird dies als benutzerdefinierter
Pad-Modus verfügbar sein.
                                                                                   keine         keine
In diesem Modus ist den unbeleuchteten Pads kein Flip    Flip 5         Flip 6
                                                                                  Funktion      Funktion
zugewiesen; blau beleuchteten Pads wurde ein Flip
zugewiesen, aber sie werden nicht abgespielt; orange
beleuchteten Pads wurde ein Flip zugewiesen und sie
werden derzeit abgespielt.

Um einem Flip ein Pad zuzuweisen, drücken Sie auf ein unbeleuchtetes Pad (1-6).

Um einen zugewiesenen Flip abzuspielen, drücken Sie das entsprechende blau beleuchtete Pad (1-6).

Um die Wiedergabe eines Flips sofort zu stoppen, halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie dann auf
das entsprechende orange beleuchtete Pad (1-6).

Um die Flip-Aufnahme zu starten, drücken Sie die linke Parameter -Taste.

Um zum Anfang des ausgewählten Flips zurückzukehren, drücken Sie die rechte Parameter -Taste.

Um den Flip-Slot-Loop umzuschalten, halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken dann die linke Parameter
-Taste.

Um den Flip-Slot ein- bzw. auszuschalten, halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken dann die rechte
Parameter -Taste.




98
Slicer
Wichtig: Ihr Track muss über ein Beatgrid verfügen, damit dieser Modus funktioniert.
Im Slicer-Modus repräsentieren die acht Pads acht 1                    2             3             4
aufeinanderfolgende Schläge - sogenannte „Slices“ -
innerhalb des Beat-Grid. Die aktuell wiedergegebene Slice 1                Slice 2       Slice 3       Slice 4
Slice wird durch das aktuell beleuchtete Pad dargestellt;
das Licht „bewegt sich durch die Pads“, so wie es sich
durch jedes der acht Slices bewegt. Sie können ein Pad 5               6             7             8
drücken, um diese Slice abzuspielen. Wenn Sie das Pad
loslassen, wird der Track zur normalen Wiedergabe zu Slice 5               Slice 6       Slice 7       Slice 8
jenem Punkt zurückkehren, an dem sich der Track
befinden würde, wenn Sie das Pad nie gedrückt hätten
(so als ob der Track einfach normal weitergelaufen wäre).
Um in den Slicer-Modus zu gelangen, drücken Sie Slicer / Transport, so dass es rot leuchtet. Das Deck
wird den Slicer-Modus verlassen, wenn Sie einen anderen Track in das Deck laden oder den Grid-
Bearbeitungsmodus aktivieren.
Um eine Scheibe abzuspielen, drücken Sie das entsprechende Pad.
Um die Quantize-Größe zu erhöhen oder zu reduzieren, drücken Sie auf die Parameter /-Tasten.
Um die Größe des Slices zu erhöhen oder zu reduzieren, drücken Sie Shift und die Parameter /-
Tasten.


Transport
Im Transport-Steuermodus entsprechen die Pads
unterschiedlichen Transportsteuerelementen. Die Software
                                                            Pitch-         Pitch-        Pitch-        Pitch-
wird automatisch in den internen Modus wechseln (wenn       Bend           Bend          Fader         Fader
Sie einen Twelve-Controller mit Seventy-Two MKII               -              +             -             +
verwenden, befindet sich die Software immer im internen
Modus).
                                                           Keylock
Um in den Transportmodus zu gelangen, drücken Sie                           Sync          Cue           
                                                           INT/REL
Slicer / Transport, so dass es grün leuchtet.
Um die Tonhöhe vorübergehend zu senken, drücken Sie Pad 1.
Um die Tonhöhe vorübergehend nach oben zu bringen, drücken Sie Pad 2.
Um den Pitch Fader nach unten zu bewegen, drücken Sie Pad 3.
Um den Pitch Fader nach oben zu bewegen, drücken Sie Pad 4.
Um Keylock zu aktivieren oder zu deaktivieren, drücken Sie Pad 5.
Um zwischen dem internen Modus (INT) und dem relativen Modus (REL) zu wechseln, drücken Sie
Shift und die Pad 5. (Das Umschalten in den relativen Modus erlaubt es Ihnen, die Wiedergabe mit Control
Vinyl oder Control CDs zu steuern).
Um die Synchronisierung zu aktivieren, drücken Sie Pad 6. Drücken Sie Shift und Pad 6, um die
Synchronisierung zu deaktivieren.
Um zum Cue-Punkt zu springen, drücken Sie Pad 7.
Um den Track abzuspielen oder anzuhalten, drücken Sie Pad 8.


Slicer-Loop

Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie Slicer / Transport (5), um den Slicer Loop-Modus
aufzurufen. Die Pads verhalten sich genauso wie im Slicer-Modus, mit dem Unterschied, dass die Phrase
mit den acht Slices als kontinuierlicher Loop im Track wiedergegeben wird.

                                                                                                                99
Benutzerdefinierte Pad-Sets
Zusätzlich zu den Standard-Pad-Modi können Sie mit der MIDI-Mapping-Funktion von Serato DJ
Pro bis zu 3 benutzerdefinierte Pad-Sets erstellen.

So erstellen Sie ein benutzerdefiniertes Pad:
1.    Halten Sie Shift gedrückt und drücken Sie Cue / Pitch Play (1), Roll / Pad FX (3) oder
      Sampler / Fader FX (4).
      Hinweis: Wenn Sie das Serato Flip Expansion Pack erworben haben, greifen Sie durch
      Drücken von Shift und Sampler / Fader FX (4) auf die Flip-Steuerelemente und nicht auf
      ein benutzerdefiniertes Pad-Set zu.
2.    Öffnen Sie das Setup-Menü in Serato DJ Pro und wählen MIDI.
3.    Wählen Sie Seventy-Two MKII und stellen Sie sicher, dass Allow Serato DJ Hardware
      Remapping aktiviert ist. Schließen Sie das Setup-Fenster.
4.    Klicken Sie im Hauptfenster von Serato DJ Pro auf die Taste MIDI am oberen Bildschirmrand,
      um mit der Zuordnung zu beginnen.
5.    Klicken Sie auf eine Funktion in Serato DJ Pro und berühren oder bewegen Sie dann ein
      Steuerelement Ihrer Hardware, um die Funktion dieser Steuerung zuzuordnen.
Weitere Informationen zum MIDI-Mapping finden Sie im Serato DJ Pro Handbuch.


Faders
Seventy-Two MKII's Kanalfader sind kontaktlose MAG FOUR Fader mit einstellbarer Spannung.

Um die Spannung der Seventy-Two MKII Kanalfader einzustellen:        Unterseite Faderplatte
1.    Stellen Sie sicher, dass das Gerät ausgeschaltet und von
      einer Stromquelle getrennt ist.
2.    Entfernen Sie die Schrauben von der Frontplatte an der
      Unterseite der oberen Abdeckung, wo sich die Fader
      befinden mit einem Schraubendreher (siehe Abbildung).
      Hinweis: Die Faderkappen müssen entfernt werden, um die
      Frontplatte zu entfernen.                                     MAG FOUR Fader
3.    Stellen Sie die Spannschraube für jeden Fader mit einem       Übersicht
      Schraubenzieher nach Ihren Wünschen ein.
                                                Spannschraube




100
Bedienfeld
Im Rane-Bedienfeld können Sie die Einstellungen Ihres Seventy-Two MKII-Mixers anpassen und
diese Einstellungen in einer Datei (.r72) auf Ihrem Computer speichern und laden. Mithilfe von
Einstellungsdateien können Sie verschiedene Steuerungskonfigurationen verwalten, die in
verschiedenen Situationen verwendet werden können.

Um Einstellungsdateien zu verwalten, navigieren Sie zum
Abschnitt Einstellungen des Rane-Bedienfelds in der
Registerkarte Allgemein.

 •   Laden: Wählen Sie diese Option, um eine Seventy-Two
     MKII-Einstellungsdatei (.r72) auf Ihrem Computer in der
     Systemsteuerung zu suchen und zu laden.

 •   Speichern: Wählen Sie diese Option, um die Einstellungen
     des Mixers als Seventy-Two MKII-Einstellungsdatei (.r72)
     auf Ihrem Computer zu speichern.


Sie können auch das Rane Control Panel verwenden, um die
Fader Ihres Seventy-Two MKII zu kalibrieren:
1. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass Ihr Seventy-Two MKII
   eingeschaltet und mit einem USB-Kabel an einen verfügbaren
   Anschluss Ihres Computers angeschlossen ist.
2. Öffnen Sie das Rane Control Panel.

3. Gehen Sie zu File >Fader Calibration.
4. Befolgen Sie die Anweisungen auf dem Bildschirm, um den
   gewünschten Fader auszuwählen und zu kalibrieren. Sie
   werden dazu aufgefordert, sobald die Kalibrierung erfolgreich
   war.




                                                                                           101
Appendix (English)
Technical Specifications

 Digital Audio
 Converters                       AKM High Definition Audio; 24-bit PCM, 48 kHz

 Digital Signal Processing        32-bit, floating point, double precision

 Dynamic Range                    ADC                              114 dB
 (A-weighted, unity gain)         DAC                              114 dB
                                  CD Input to Analog Output        111 dB
                                  CD Input to USB Output           114 dB
                                  USB Input to Analog Output       114 dB

 Inputs
 Microphone 1/2                   Analog Gain                      30 dB (Mic), 4.75 dB (Line)
 (Combo XLR/1/4" [6.35 mm] TRS,   Maximum Input                    0.126 Vrms (Mic), 2.3 Vrms (Line)
 Mic/Line switchable)
                                  Gain Trim                        Off to +20 dB (unity at center)

 Aux Inputs 1/2                   Maximum Input                    4 Vrms
 (RCA stereo pairs)               Dynamic Range (A-weighted)       114 dB

 CD/Phono Inputs 1/2              CD                               Line
 (RCA stereo pairs, switchable)   Maximum Input                    4 Vrms
                                  Dynamic Range (A-weighted)       114 dB

                                  Phono                            RIAA
                                  RIAA Curve                       +0.1/-0.2 dB
                                  Gain (@ 1 kHz)                   30 dB
                                  Maximum Input (@ 1 kHz)          126 mV

 Session Input                    Maximum Input                    4 Vrms
 (RCA stereo pair)                Dynamic Range (A-weighted)       114 dB

 Outputs
 Main Outputs                     Frequency Response               20 Hz to 20 kHz (± 0.2 dB)
 (XLR)                            Maximum Output                   8 Vrms
                                  THD+N (@ 1 kHz, 4 Vrms)          0.002%

 Booth Outputs                    Frequency Response               20 Hz to 20 kHz (± 0.2 dB)
 (1/4"/6.35 mm TRS)               Maximum Output                   8 Vrms
                                  THD+N (@ 1 kHz, 4 Vrms)          0.002%

 Session Outputs                  Frequency Response               20 Hz to 20 kHz (± 0.2 dB)
 (RCA stereo pair)                Maximum Output                   4 Vrms
                                  THD+N (@ 1 kHz, 2 Vrms)          0.002%

 Headphone Outputs                Maximum Output Voltage           4 V (no load)
 (1/4"/6.35 mm and 1/8"/3.5 mm    THD+N (@ 1 kHz, 2 Vrms)          0.003%
 TRS)
                                  Output Power                     96 mW (50 ohms)
                                  Controls                         On/Off muting


102
 General
 Display                            Full-color display with capacitive multi-touch
                                    2.1” x 3.7” / 54 x 95 mm (width x depth)
                                    4.3” / 109 mm (diagonal)

 Pads                               (16) velocity-sensitive multi-color back-lit pads (8 per deck, 10
                                    modes each)

 Faders                             (3) MAG FOUR tension-adjustable faders (2 channel/line faders, 1
                                    crossfader)

 Connectors                         (2) XLR outputs (Main)
                                    (2) 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS outputs (Booth)
                                    (4) RCA stereo input pairs (Deck 1–2)
                                    (2) XLR / 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS inputs (Mic 1–2)
                                    (1) RCA stereo input pair (Session)
                                    (1) RCA stereo output pair (Session)
                                    (1) 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS output (Headphones)
                                    (1) 1/8” (3.5 mm) TRS output (Headphones)
                                    (1) 1/4” (6.35 mm) TRS input (Footswitch)
                                    (2) USB Type-A ports (Deck 1–2 USB Controllers)
                                    (2) USB Type-B ports
                                    (1) IEC power cable input

 Power                              Connection: IEC
                                    Voltage: 100–240 V, 50/60 Hz
                                    Consumption: 30 W

 Dimensions                         11.2” x 17.5” x 4.13”
 (width x depth x height)           285 x 445 x 105 mm

 Weight                             12.3 lbs.
                                    5.6 kg

Specifications are subject to change without notice.



Trademarks & Licenses
Rane is a trademark of inMusic Brands, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Serato, Serato DJ Pro, NoiseMap and the Serato logo are registered trademarks of Serato Audio Research.
Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
All other product names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners.




                                                                                                        103
dj.rane.com




  Manual Version 1.4
