User Guide
      English




 Manual Version 1.0.0
                                                                Table of Contents


    1.0     Introduction ...................................... 3                     5.3         Step Sequencer ................................ 30
                                                                                          5.3.1        Configuration ...................................... 30
      1.1         Box Contents ...................................... 3                   5.3.2        Note Input Pads .................................. 32
                                                                                          5.3.3        Step Pads ............................................. 33
      1.2         Support................................................ 3               5.3.4        Modifer Pads ....................................... 34
                                                                                          5.3.5        Recording Sequences ........................ 35
      1.3         About This User Guide ...................... 3
                                                                                          5.3.6        Editing Sequences .............................. 37
                                                                                          5.3.7        Send to Clip ......................................... 38

    2.0     Setup ................................................. 4
                                                                                      5.4         Project Mode..................................... 39
                                                                                          5.4.1        Managing Projects .............................. 41

    3.0     Features............................................. 5
                                                                                      5.5         Touch Faders..................................... 42

      3.1         Top Panel ............................................ 5
                                                                                      5.6         Global Menu ..................................... 46

      3.2         Rear Panel ......................................... 11
                                                                                      5.7         Custom Mode ................................... 50
                                                                                          5.7.1 Using the APC64 Project Editor
                                                                                          Software ............................................................. 50
    4.0     Tutorial ............................................ 12                          5.7.1.1 Download and Installation ....................... 50
                                                                                              5.7.1.2 Setup and Overview ................................. 51
                                                                                              5.7.1.3 Editing ........................................................ 52
    5.0     Operation ........................................ 18                             5.7.1.4 Managing Presets ..................................... 58
                                                                                              5.7.1.5 Global Settings .......................................... 60
      5.1         Session View ..................................... 19
          5.1.1      Overview Mode .................................. 20              5.8         CV Operation .................................... 62
          5.1.2      Launching Clips .................................. 21                5.8.1        CV Connection Examples .................. 63
          5.1.3      Recording Clips .................................. 22                    5.8.1.1 Standalone Connections ......................... 63

            5.1.3.1 Fixed Length ............................................. 23             5.8.1.2 Connections with Ableton Live ............... 64

          5.1.4      Quantization ........................................ 24
          5.1.3      Managing Clips ................................... 25
                                                                                    6.0       Appendix ......................................... 65

      5.2         Note Mode and Chord Mode ......... 26
                                                                                      6.1         Technical Specifications .................. 65
          5.2.1      Configuration ...................................... 26
          5.2.2      Playing Notes and Chords ................ 29
                                                                                      6.2         Trademarks & Licenses .................... 65
          5.2.3      Drum Tracks in Note Mode ............... 29




2
1.0 Introduction

1.1     Box Contents

APC64
USB-C® Cable
USB-C®-to-USB-A Cable
3 1/8”-to-5-pin MIDI Adapters
Software Download Card
Quickstart Guide
Safety & Warranty Manual



1.2     Support

For the latest information about this product (documentation, technical specifications, firmware updates, etc.),
visit akaipro.com.
For additional product support, visit akaipro.com/support.
For product registration and account access, visit profile.inmusicbrands.com.



1.3     About This User Guide

This manual should help you get familiar with using your APC64. For consistency, the terminology throughout is
based on the Ableton Live nomenclature. We also used specific formatting to indicate particular topics of
significance:


Important/Note/Tip: Important or helpful information on a given topic.


Names of buttons, controls, parameters, settings, and other options are written in bold characters throughout the
manual.
    Examples: Press the CLIP STOP button to set the function of the Control Row.
                Hold SHIFT and use the cursors to move the 8x8 focus by eight rows or columns at a time.
                The display will show Sending… as it prepares the clip, and then Done! once it has completed.
                If the configuration has been set to Show Non-Scale Notes, these will be unlit.


Some parts of this manual refer to other relevant chapters or sections, which are cited in bold, italic blue
characters. Click the text to skip immediately to that section.
    Examples: See 5.1 Operation > Session View for more information.
                When in 5.3 Step Sequencer mode, press this button to set the Note Modifer pads to control
                Velocity.
                Use the Clear button, as described in the following section.


You can also click on certain images to jump to specific sections of the manual.



                                                                                                               3
2.0 Setup

Important: From time to time, we may update APC64’s firmware to add exciting new features and improvements.
Visit akaipro.com and go to the APC64 product page to check for available updates.


1. Make sure you have downloaded and installed the latest version of Ableton Live (11 or newer) on your
   computer. Then, open Ableton Live.
2. Use the included USB cable to connect APC64's USB Port to an available USB 3.0 port on your computer
   (powered on).
    Note: If connecting to a USB hub, make sure a powered hub is used.
3. In Ableton Live, open the Preferences menu.
4. Click the Link/MIDI tab.
5. Click an available Control Surface drop-down menu and select
   APC64.
6. Click an available Input drop-down menu and select APC64.
7. Click an available Output drop-down menu and select APC64.
8. The remainder of the MIDI port settings should automatically be
   selected according to the image shown. If you are having issues,
   ensure the settings are still set to these defaults.
    Note: MPE should not be enabled with APC64.
9. Close the Preferences window. You can now use APC64 with
   Ableton Live.




For an overview of APC64’s controls, proceed to the following 3.0 Features section.


For a walkthrough of using APC64 with Ableton Live, proceed to the 4.0 Tutorial section.


For a complete breakdown of all of APC64’s features and functions, proceed to the 5.0 Operation section.




4
3.0 Features

Click on the picture to jump directly to the selected control.



3.1     Top Panel




A. SESSION VIEW / OVERVIEW: Press this button to cycle between Session View, which displays the clip matrix
   on the Pad Grid, and Overview, which provides a snapshot of your entire project.
    While in either Session View or Overview, you can press and hold this button to momentarily access the other
    view. When you release this button, you will return to the previous view.
    See 5.1 Operation > Session View for more information.

B. NOTE MODE: Press this button to enable the Pad Grid to play configurable scales of MIDI notes.

C. CHORD MODE: Press this button to enable the Pad Grid to play configurable MIDI Chords.
    Note: For both NOTE MODE and CHORD MODE, press either button a second time, or press and hold
    SHIFT and then press either button, to open Note and Chord Modes Configuration. You can also momentarily
    view the Configuration mode by pressing and holding either button. When you release, you will return to
    Note Mode or Chord Mode.
    See 5.2 Operation > Note Mode and Chord Mode for more information.




                                                                                                              5
D. STEP SEQ: Press this button to enable the Pad Grid to function as a Step Sequencer.
     Press this button a second time, or press and hold SHIFT and then press this button, to open the Step
     Sequencer configuration. You can also momentarily view the configuration mode by pressing and holding
     this button. When you release, you will return to the Step Sequencer.
     See 5.3 Operation > Step Sequencer for more information.

E. PROJECT: Press this button to view, save, and load APC64 projects, which contain step sequence patterns,
   device parameters, and custom mode assignments.
     See 5.4 Operation > Project Mode for more information.

F. CUSTOM / GLOBAL: Press this button to open the custom control layout, where you can access modified
   control functions assigned using the APC64 Project Editor Software. See 5.7 Operation > Custom Mode for
   more information.
     Press this button a second time to open the Global Menu. You can also momentarily view the Global Menu
     by pressing and holding this button. When you release, you will return to Custom Mode. See 5.6 Operation
     > Global Menu for more information.

G. PLAY: Press this button to start or restart playback.
     Press and hold SHIFT and this button to pause playback or resume playback from the paused point.

H. STOP: Press this button to stop playback.
     Double-press this button to stop playback and return to the start of the arrangement.

I.   RECORD: Press this button to begin recording in Ableton Live.
     Press SHIFT and this button to enable MIDI overdub recording in Ableton Live.

6
J. Pad Grid: This 8x8 grid of LED backlit touch-sensitive pads displays active clips or notes based on the mode
   selected. The columns represent tracks, and the rows represent scenes. Use the cursors to change the 8x8
   view in focus when using Ableton Live, represented by a red outline.

K. Scene LAUNCH Buttons: Press these buttons to launch the adjacent scene.
   Press and hold SHIFT and press the Scene Launch button with the following written below to access
   additional features:
       VELOCITY: When in 5.3 Step Sequencer mode, press this button to set the Note Modifer pads to control
       Velocity.
       PROBABILITY: When in 5.3 Step Sequencer mode, press this button to set the Note Modifer pads to
       control Probability.
       MUTATE: When in 5.3 Step Sequencer mode, press this button to set the Note Modifer pads to control
       the Mutate function.
       SAVE: Press this button to save the device settings to the currently selected Project.
       SAVE TO…: Press this button to open the Save As dialog on the display to save the device settings to a
       Project slot.
       Note: Saved projects are for internal device settings only. Ableton Live projects must be saved from the
       software. See 5.4 Operation > Project Mode for more information.
       STOP ALL: Press this button to stop all playing clips in all tracks.




                                                                                                             7
L. Touch Faders: Slide your finger up and down these touch-sensitive strips to control selected session
   parameters. Touching a spot on the fader will set the parameter to that level immediately. The current fader
   position is represented by a white dot in the LEDs next to each fader. When automation has been recorded
   to a touch fader, the white dot will turn red. The remaining LEDs will be lit according to the track color and
   the current position of the parameter relative to its default value.
    Press and hold SHIFT and touch a fader to finely adjust the selected parameter.

M. Touch Fader Controls: Use these buttons to set the control parameter for the Touch Faders:
       DEVICE: Device controls. While holding this button, use the up and down cursors to cycle between
       banks of controls in a device. Use the left and right cursors to switch focus between multiple devices on
       one track.
       VOLUME: Track volume.
       PAN: Track stereo panning.
       SEND: Track Sends. Press this button again to cycle between Send channels when more than one is in use.
       CHANNEL STRIP: Combination of Volume, Pan, and Sends for the selected track.
       OFF: Disables the touch faders.
    See 5.5 Operation > Touch Faders for more information.

N. TEMPO: Press this button in time with the desired tempo to enter a new tempo.
    Press and hold to view session tempo on the display and then use the encoder to adjust it.
    Press and hold SHIFT and this button and then use the encoder to adjust the SWING percentage of the
    internal Step Sequencer, as shown on the display.

8
O. CLEAR: Press and hold this button and then press a pad, scene launch button, step, touch fader, or project
   to clear it.

P. DUPLICATE: Press and hold this button and then press a pad containing a clip to duplicate it into the next
   available clip slot.
   Press and hold SHIFT, then press and hold this button and press a pad containing a clip to DOUBLE the
   length of the selected clip.

Q. FIXED LENGTH: Press to enable fixed length recording. This will stop recording once the set length has been
   reached.
   Press and hold this button and then use the encoder to change the fixed length recording size, as shown in
   the display. See 5.1.3.1 Operation > Recording Clips > Fixed Length for more information.

R. QUANTIZE: Press and hold this button and then press a pad containing a clip to apply quantization to its
   notes.
   Press and hold this button and then turn the encoder to set the quantization value, as shown in the display.
   Press and hold SHIFT and then press this button to enable or disable RECORD Quantization. When enabled,
   notes will be quantized to the set value as you record.
   Note: Record Quantization values must be set in Ableton Live; the SHIFT functionality only turns Record
   Quantization on and off.

S. UNDO: Press to undo the last action performed in Ableton Live.
   Press SHIFT and this button to REDO the last action.


                                                                                                              9
T. SHIFT: Press and hold this button to access secondary button functions, printed below the buttons.

U. Cursors: Use these directional buttons as a cursor to navigate tracks and scene banks on the Pad Grid, as
   well as device parameters in DEVICE touch fader mode.

V. Control Row Function Select: Press one of these four buttons to set the function of the Control Row buttons:
        RECORD ARM: Arm the selected track for recording.
        MUTE: Mute the selected track.
        SOLO: Solo the selected track.
        CLIP STOP: Stop clips in the selected track.

W. Control Row: Press to perform selected Control Row Function on the corresponding track only.

X. TRACK SELECT: Press to select the corresponding track.
     Press and hold SHIFT and press these buttons to set the launch quantization value.

Y. Encoder: Turn this knob to select options on the display screen and push it to select.
     Note: When connected to Ableton Live, pressing this encoder will also enable or disable the metronome if
     you are not in another editing menu.

Z. Display: This screen shows track and device information from your Ableton Live session and information
   about the device’s controls.



10
3.2    Rear Panel




A. Power Switch: Use this switch to power APC64 on and off.

B. USB Port: Connect the included USB cable here and connect the other end to your computer’s USB 3.0 port
   to use APC64 with Ableton Live or send MIDI data over USB. You can also connect this port to a standard USB
   power adapter (sold separately) to power the unit for standalone use.

C. CV/Gate Outputs: Insert a 1/8” (3.5 mm) TS cable into one of eight outputs and connect to an external
   device’s CV input to send CV/Gate signals from APC64 to the connected device. See 5.8 Operation > CV
   Operation for more information.

D. MIDI Input: Use the included 1/8” (3.5 mm)-to-MIDI adapter and a standard 5-pin MIDI cable (not included)
   to connect APC64 to another MIDI controller.

E. MIDI Outputs: Use the included 1/8” (3.5 mm)-to-MIDI adapter and a standard 5-pin MIDI cable (not
   included) to connect to an external device to send MIDI messages to.
   Note: The two MIDI Output ports are mirrored and send the same data.

F. Kensington® Lock Slot: You can use this slot to secure your APC64 to a table or other surface.




                                                                                                            11
4.0 Tutorial

This chapter describes basic terminology and how to get started doing basic tasks using your APC64. To get the
most out of this chapter, we recommend reproducing each of the described steps in order.


To start using APC64 with Ableton Live, first make sure you have downloaded and installed the latest version of
Ableton Live (11 or newer).


Connect your APC64 hardware to your computer running Ableton Live using one of the included USB-C cables,
and set the Power Switch to On. By default, APC64 will power on in Ableton Live Device Mode. If you are having
issues connecting to Ableton Live, make sure this setting has not been changed in the Global Menu.


Ensure that APC64 has been selected as a Control Surface and MIDI Input and Output source in Ableton Live’s
Preferences, as described in 2.0 Setup.


APC64 will begin with SESSION VIEW in focus. This display mode gives you an overview of your project, which
is represented by a red outline in Ableton Live. Use the cursor buttons to move the current view of the pad grid
by one row or column at a time.


Each column in Session View represents a track. Tracks can be used to hold audio samples, drum kits, instrument
plugins and more. Use the TRACK SELECT buttons to select the track in focus.




           Session View in Ableton Live, showing MIDI and Audio tracks (left side) and Send and Master tracks (right side)




                                                  Track Select Buttons on APC64



12
Each track is made up of clips, which are short sequences of audio or MIDI. Only one clip in a track can play at a
time. When a pad has a clip loaded to it, press it to launch it. Let’s start by adding a sample from Ableton Live’s
library to a track and launching it.
1. Use the Ableton Live Browser to find a sound from the Samples Category.
2. Add this to an available Audio Track in the first clip slot.
3. Once the clip has been loaded, you will see the corresponding pad on APC64 light up.
4. Press the pad to launch the clip. You will hear the sample playing, the PLAY button will light up, and the pad
   will begin pulsing green to indicate playback is active.
5. To stop playback of the project, press the STOP button. The pad will continue to pulse green, meaning it will
   relaunch once playback is resumed. To stop clip playback, press the CLIP STOP button, and then press the
   TRACK SELECT button for the track containing the audio clip.




                                                                              A clip added in Session View.



Clips that are aligned in the same row are called a scene. You can trigger clips in a scene at the same time by
pressing the LAUNCH button on the right side of the row. Let’s try loading another clip to another Audio Track.
1. Use the Ableton Live Browser to find another sound from the Samples Category.
2. Add this clip to a second Audio Track in the same clip row as your first sample.
3. Press the row 1 LAUNCH button to launch both clips at the same time. Now both pads will pulse green and
   both samples will play.
4. To stop both clips from playing at the same time, press and hold SHIFT and then press the row 8 LAUNCH /
   STOP ALL button.




                                                                               Two clips launched together.
                                                                         Press SHIFT+STOP ALL to stop both clips.




                                                                                                                    13
In addition to loading audio samples, you can create your own clips using MIDI instruments. Let’s start a new clip
recording. We’ll begin by adding and recording a drum track.
1. Use the Ableton Live Browser to load a kit from the Drums Category. Add this to an available MIDI track.
2. Press the NOTE MODE button, and then select the MIDI track using the TRACK SELECT button.
     APC64’s pad grid will change, and the bottom-left quadrant of pads will be lit. You can now use these pads
     like a traditional 4x4 drum pad layout to play samples.
3. When a MIDI track is selected from APC64, the selected track’s track arm button in Ableton Live will turn light
   red to indicate it has been automatically record-armed. This allows you to immediately play the pads and
   hear the sample playback.
     You can also manually arm the track for recording by pressing RECORD ARM button on APC64, and then
     pressing the Control Row button for the MIDI track. The track arm button in Ableton Live will then be lit
     bright red to indicate the track is armed, and it will stay armed even if you navigate away from the track.
4. Press the encoder to enable the metronome while you record.
5. Press the RECORD transport button. A new clip will be created on the track and begin recording immediately.
6. Tap out a drum pattern on the pads to record it.
7. When you are finished, you can press RECORD again and the clip will begin playback. You can edit the clip
   in Ableton Live as needed.




                                                                             Note Mode for a Drum Track.
                                                                            Arming the track for recording.




                                                                             Playing back the recorded clip.




14
Next, let’s continue to build out the track by adding a melodic bass line.
1. Use the Ableton Live Browser to load a bass melodic instrument from the Instruments Category. Add this to
   a second MIDI track.
2. Press the NOTE MODE button, and then select the MIDI track using the TRACK SELECT button. APC64’s pad
   grid will change to a melodic note layout. The root notes will be lit according to the track color.
3. Press NOTE MODE a second time to configure the Note Mode settings. Use the pads or the encoder to
   adjust the root note, scale, and pad layout as needed. Press NOTE MODE a second time to return to the
   melodic pad layout.
4. Once you are ready to record, ensure that the track is armed for recording, and then press the RECORD
   transport button. A new clip will be created on the track and begin recording immediately.
5. Tap out a bass line on the pads to record it.
6. When you are finished, you can press RECORD again and the clip will begin playback. You can edit the clip
   in Ableton Live as needed.




                                                                             Note Mode for a Melodic Track.




                                                                                                              15
Finally, let’s add harmonic chords to tie everything together.
1. Insert a new MIDI track into your Ableton Live project as needed.
2. Use the Ableton Live Browser to load a harmonic instrument like a synth pad from the Instruments Category.
   Add this to a third MIDI track.
3. Press the CHORD MODE button, and then select the MIDI track using the TRACK SELECT button. APC64’s
   pad grid will change to the same melodic note layout as Note Mode, but this time each pad plays multiple
   notes simultaneously to create a chord.
4. Press CHORD MODE a second time to configure the Chord Mode settings. The Chord Mode configuration
   shares its scale and mode settings with Note Mode configuration to ensure your tracks are harmonically
   synced. Use the pads or the encoder to adjust the chord type as needed. Press CHORD MODE a second
   time to return to the melodic pad layout.
5. Once you are ready to record, ensure that the track is armed for recording, and then press the RECORD
   transport button. A new clip will be created on the track and begin recording immediately.
6. Tap out a chord progression on the pads to record it.
7. When you are finished, you can press RECORD again and the clip will begin playback. You can edit the clip
   in Ableton Live as needed.




                                                                                   Chord Mode.



These steps give you the basic building blocks to launch clips and create clips in Ableton Live using your APC64.
Try recording a few more clips with variations, and then experiment with launching different clips or scenes.




16
As you play your project, you can also begin using APC64 for editing and mixing using other controls on the
device. Try using the Touch Fader Controls for hands-on adjustments to various track parameters:
1. By default, the touch strips will be set to DEVICE control, with this button lit on APC64.
2. Select a track with a MIDI device or effect using the TRACK SELECT buttons.
3. Try adjusting one of the touch faders. The device parameter being adjusted will be shown in APC64’s display,
   and you will see the parameter being adjusted in Ableton Live.




                                                                    Device control mode for the Touch Faders.



You can change the active Touch Fader Control by pressing the VOLUME, PAN, SEND, or CHANNEL STRIP
buttons. Try selecting another control and making further adjustments, like turning the track volume up or down
or adjusting a track’s Send control to add an effect.


For an in-depth review of APC64’s features and functions, proceed to the following 5.0 Operation chapter.




                                                                                                                17
5.0 Operation

This chapter describes APC64’s functions. Click a link below to jump directly to that section:


     5.1 Session View – Create, launch, organize, and edit clips.

     5.2 Note Mode and Chord Mode – Play configurable notes, chords, and drum pads.

     5.3 Step Sequencer – Create sequence patterns.

     5.4 Project Mode – Create and manage project templates.

     5.5 Touch Faders – Adjust track parameters.

     5.6 Global Menu – Adjust APC64 internal settings.

     5.7 Custom Mode – Edit the MIDI assignments of APC64 using the Project Editor.

     5.8 CV Operation – Connect to and control external CV devices.




18
5.1     Session View

Session View in Ableton Live is where clips are organized and launched. This view is
great for developing ideas before recording to an arrangement, or for live and on-the-
fly performances.
Note: Session View is only available when connected to Ableton Live. When using
APC64 as a standalone controller, this button will be deactivated.
   To open Session View mode on the pads, press the SESSION VIEW button.


The current focus of APC64’s 8x8 pad grid in Ableton Live will be shown by a red outline. The eight columns of
APC64’s pad grid will correspond to the available tracks in Ableton Live, including the Return tracks and the
Master track. The TRACK SELECT buttons will be lit up in the same color of the track in Ableton Live. If you have
less than eight tracks, including Returns, unused columns will have their TRACK SELECT buttons dimmed, and
the Master track will automatically be mapped to the eighth column.
   To select a track, press the TRACK SELECT buttons. The selected track’s button will be lit white. The display
   will also show the track name (highlighted by the track color), device name (if one is loaded), and current
   device bank (if a device is loaded).



              Track Name
              Device Name
               Device Bank




The eight rows of APC64’s pad grid correspond to eight scenes of clips. See 5.1.2 Launching Clips for more
information on launching clips and scenes.


As your project grows, you may have more tracks and scenes than can
be shown on the pad grid.
   To move the 8x8 focus by one track or scene at a time, press
   the cursor keys. As you move, the red outline will also move in
   Ableton Live’s Session View.
   To move the 8x8 focus by eight tracks or scenes at a time,
   press and hold SHIFT and press the cursor keys.




                                                                                                               19
5.1.1 Overview Mode

In very large projects, you may have more than the eight tracks and eight scenes that
are immediately visible on APC64’s pad grid while in Session View. Although you
can move the current 8x8 focus in Session View using the cursors, Overview mode
provides another way to quickly and easily navigate between large amounts of tracks
and scenes and give a snapshot of the current clip statuses.                                 1   2
     To open Overview mode, press SESSION VIEW / OVERVIEW while in Session
     View. Alternatively, press and hold SESSION VIEW / OVERVIEW while in                    3
     Session View to temporarily view Overview mode. When you release the button,
     the pad grid will return to Session View.


In Overview mode, each pad on the pad grid (starting in the upper-left corner)
represents a block of eight tracks and eight scenes in your session. This is represented
by the red outline in Ableton Live.
     To move between 8x8 blocks, press a lit pad in Overview mode. The number of
     pads available will depend on the size of your project.


For instance, in the image to the right, you could press the pads to access the following:
     Pad 1 (amber): Tracks 1–8, Scenes 1–8
     Pad 2 (red): Tracks 9–16, Scenes 1–8
     Pad 3 (green): Tracks 1–8, Scenes 9–16


The pads in Overview mode will also change color depending on the the current 8x8
block in focus and the behavior of clips in each block:
     Amber: The current 8x8 block in focus.
     Green: An 8x8 block where clips are currently playing.
     Red: An 8x8 block where no clips are playing.
     Off: Empty 8x8 blocks.




20
5.1.2 Launching Clips

When Session View is active, pressing the pads in the pad grid will launch a clip if one is loaded. If the clip slot is
empty, it will stop playback on the selected track, or create a new clip if the track is record-armed.


To launch a clip, press a pad. Depending on the launch quantization value, the selected
pad will begin flashing green as it prepares to play. Once the clip begins playing, the
pad will slowly pulse green.
If a track is selected and record-enabled, a new clip will be created if there is not one in
the selected clip slot. See 5.1.3 Recording Clips for more information on creating clips.




To select a clip without launching it, press and hold SHIFT and then press the pad.




In addition to launching individual clips, you can also launch an entire row of clips (called
a scene). This is useful for creating distinct song sections where you want several clips to
begin playing simultaneously.
    To launch a scene (or row of clips), use the LAUNCH buttons on the right side of
    the pad grid.




To stop a clip:
1. Press the CLIP STOP button to set the function of the Control Row.
2. Press the Control Row button that corresponds with the track of the clip you would
   like to stop. The Control Row button will begin flashing until the clip stops (depending
   on the global launch quantization value).                                                                2

                                                                                                    1




To stop all clips, press and hold SHIFT and press the Row 8 LAUNCH / STOP ALL
button.




To move the current matrix display view, use the cursors. Hold SHIFT and use the
cursors to move the 8x8 focus by eight rows or columns at a time. The red outline in
Ableton Live will move accordingly.




                                                                                                                    21
5.1.3 Recording Clips

To create a new clip:
1. Press the RECORD ARM button, and then press the TRACK SELECT button for the
   track where you want to add a clip.                                                           1

2. Tap an empty clip slot on the pads. A new clip will be created and begin recording                   2
   immediately.
     Alternatively, press the RECORD transport button. A new clip will be created in the
     selected track in the next available clip slot.


To stop recording, do any of the following:
 • Press the CONTROL ROW button again while RECORD ARM is still selected. The clip
   will exit recording and begin playback.
 • Press the clip slot pad you are recording to. The clip will exit recording and begin
   playback.
 • Press the RECORD transport button. The clip will exit recording and begin playback.
 • Press the STOP transport button. The clip will exit recording and playback will stop.




In addition to recording a new clip, you can also use MIDI overdub recording to add on to an existing clip.


To begin MIDI overdub recording:
1. Press and hold SHIFT and press the RECORD transport button.
2. Select the track with the clip you want to overdub record onto using the TRACK SELECT buttons.
3. Launch the desired clip, or press PLAY to begin playback of the clip if it is prepared for launch.
4. Begin recording. Your new performance will be layered on top of the existing MIDI data in the clip.


To stop MIDI overdub recording:
 • Press the CONTROL ROW button again while RECORD ARM is still selected. The clip will exit recording and
   begin playback.
 • Press the RECORD transport button. The clip will exit recording and begin playback.
 • Press the STOP transport button. The clip will exit recording and playback will stop.




22
5.1.3.1 Fixed Length


By default, when you begin recording a clip, it will continue playing and recording until
the clip is stopped or transport playback is stopped. However, you can also set a clip to
only record for a certain time by using the Fixed Length function.
    To enable Fixed Length recording, press the FIXED LENGTH button. When
    enabled, this button will light up.
    To adjust the Fixed Length value, press and hold the FIXED LENGTH button. The
    APC64 display will show “Fixed Length” and the current value. Turn the encoder to
    adjust the value, and then release the FIXED LENGTH button to set it.




               Fixed Length
                  1 BAR




                                                                                            23
5.1.4 Quantization

As you record new clips, your playing may not be perfectly aligned to a given tempo subdivision. This can be
easily corrected by using quantization, which will snap notes (either already recorded or as you record) to the
timing grid.


Before you apply quantization, set the tempo subdivision that you want your notes to
align with.
     To adjust the quantization value, press and hold the QUANTIZE button. The
     APC64 display will show “Quantization” and the current value. Turn the encoder to
     adjust the value, and then release the QUANTIZE button to set it.




               Quantization
                   1/16




Once your quantization value is set, you can apply it to recorded clips or apply it as you record notes.
     To apply quantization to a recorded clip, press and hold the QUANTIZE button, and then tap the desired
     clip. The notes in the clip will be shifted to align with the closest quantization value subdivision.
     To apply quantization as you record, press and hold SHIFT, and then press the QUANTIZE button. When
     pressed, the APC64 display will show “Record Quantize” and its current status, either On or Off. Set this to
     On to enable quantization as you record. This will automatically snap new notes to the closest quantization
     value subdivision as you record. When enabled, the QUANTIZE button will be lit while SHIFT is also being
     held.
     Note: This feature only toggles Record Quantization on and off. To set the Record Quantization value, use
     the Edit > Record Quantization menu option in Ableton Live.




              Record Quantize
                    On




24
5.1.3 Managing Clips

Basic clip editing and management can be done directly from the APC64 hardware using the following controls.


Use the CLEAR button to erase clips and scenes:
    To erase a clip, press and hold the CLEAR button, and then press the
    desired pad.
    To erase an entire scene, press and hold the CLEAR button, and then press
    the LAUNCH button for the desired scene. All clips in that row will be
    removed.


Use the DUPLICATE button to copy clips and scenes.
    To duplicate a clip, press and hold the DUPLICATE button, and then press
    the desired pad. The clip and all its note and performance data will be
    copied to the next clip slot below.
    To duplicate a scene, press and hold the DUPLICATE button, and then
    press the LAUNCH button for the desired scene. All clips in that row will be
    copied to the next row below.
Note: If another clip or scene is in the next clip slot or row, its contents will be
overwritten by the duplicated clip or scene.


To double the length of a clip, press and hold both SHIFT and the DUPLICATE / DOUBLE button, and then
press the desired pad. The clip’s total length will instantly be doubled. If note or performance data is already
recorded into the clip, it will also be doubled to the new length.
Note: Audio clips cannot be doubled.




                                                                                                             25
5.2        Note Mode and Chord Mode

APC64 features two modes for playing melodic content from the pad grid.
In Note Mode, each pad plays an individual note. In Chord Mode, each pad
plays a chord comprised of three or more notes in sync.
     To open Note Mode, press the NOTE MODE button.
     To open Chord Mode, press the CHORD MODE button.
Both Note Mode and Chord Mode may be used in conjunction with Ableton
Live MIDI tracks, or when using APC64 as a standalone MIDI or CV device.


5.2.1 Configuration

Both Note Mode and Chord Mode have Configuration options which can be accessed by pressing and holding
SHIFT and then pressing either NOTE MODE or CHORD MODE. You can also press and hold the NOTE MODE
or CHORD MODE buttons while viewing either mode to momentarily access the Configuration view. When you
release the button, you will return to the previous mode.
Although they can be accessed separately, the configurations of these two modes are identical and the settings
are shared across both modes to ensure your tracks are harmonically synced. When you press SHIFT and either
button, both buttons will be lit up, and you will see Note/Chord Cfg on the display along with the following pad
layout:

               C1           C2          C3           C4          C5            C6           C7           C8


      R1                    Db          Eb                       Gb            Ab           Bb


      R2        C            D          E            F            G             A           B            C


      R3                                                                      1-3-5        1-2-5       1-4-5


            Separate    Separate    Separate    Separate
      R4                                                                     1-3-5-7      1-3-5-6      1-3-5-9
           Rows by 3rd Rows by 4th Rows by 5th Rows by 6th

                         Separate               Show/Hide
            Separate                                          Send Poly
      R5                 Rows by                Non-Scale                      Maj         Min          Dim
           Rows by 7th                                         On/Off
                          Octave                  Notes

                                      Melodic   Harmonic        Major         Minor
      R6   Chromatic       Major                                                          Dorian      Phrygian
                                       Minor     Minor        Pentatonic    Pentatonic


      R7      Lydian     Mixolydian   Aeolian      Locrian      Blues       Flamenco     Hungarian   Whole Tone


      R8     OCT -2       OCT -1      OCT 0        OCT 1       OCT 2         OCT 3        OCT 4        OCT 5



In the example above, the following is selected:
     Key: C                                                  Non-Scale Notes: Hidden
     Chord: 1-3-5                                            Send Poly Aftertouch: On
     Chord Type: Major                                       Scale: Major
     Layout: Separate rows by 5th                            Octave: 1
See the following page for descriptions of each parameter.


26
Use Rows 1–2 to set the root note of the scale. These pads are laid out like the keys of a piano, from C to C in the
lower row.
When one of these pads is pressed, the selected root note will be lit green. The remaining scale notes will be lit
amber, and any non-scale notes will be lit red. These colors will automatically update as you change root notes
and other scale parameters.


Use Rows 3–5, Columns 6–8 to select a chord type. For five- and seven-tone scales, press one of the Rows 3–4
pads:
       1-3-5 (major/minor)         1-2-5 (sus2)             1-4-5 (sus4)
       1-3-5-7 (major7/minor7) 1-3-5-6 (major6/minor6) 1-3-5-9 (major9/minor9)
For six- or twelve-tone scales, press one of the Rows 3–4 pads and one of the Row 5 pads to change the Alt Chord
Type.
       Major                       Minor                    Diminished
When selected, the chosen chord will play in the set scale each time a pad is pressed while Chord Mode is active.
The selected pad will be lit green.


Use Rows 4–5, Columns 1–4 to determine how notes are laid out on the 8x8 pad grid:
       Separate Rows by 3rd        Separate Rows by 5th     Separate Rows by 7th

       Separate Rows by 4th        Separate Rows by 6th     Separate Rows by Octave


Press the Show/Hide Non-Scale Notes pad (R5,C4) to enable or disable notes from outside the selected scale
from being shown on the pad grid. Non-scale notes will be unlit in the pad grid when enabled.


Press the Send Poly Aftertouch pad (R5,C5) to enable poly aftertouch messages from the pad grid.


Use Rows 6–7 to set the scale type:
       Chromatic              Major Pentatonic    Lydian              Blues

       Major                  Minor Pentatonic    Mixolydian          Flamenco

       Melodic Minor          Dorian              Aeolian             Hungarian

       Harmonic Minor         Phrygian            Locrian             Whole Tone


Use Row 8 is used to set the base octave for the pads in Note Mode, starting from the lower-left pad:
       Octave                -2        -1    0      1       2        3        4      5

       Lowest Note           C-2       C-1   C0     C1      C2       C3       C4     C5




                                                                                                                 27
As an alternative to using the pads to change the note mode, you can also use the encoder to change these
values as shown on the display. Turn the encoder to browse each note mode category. Press the encoder to
open it, and then turn the encoder to browse the available options. When you are finished, press the encoder
again to confirm your selection.



             Note/Chord Cfg
            1. Root Note
             C




28
5.2.2 Playing Notes and Chords

In both Note and Chord Modes, root notes of the set scale will
be lit according to the color of the selected track, and the
remaining scale notes will be lit white. If the configuration has
been set to Show Non-Scale Notes, these will be unlit.
    To play a note or chord, press a pad. When pressed, the
    played pad will be lit green, and all other pads of the same
    note value will be lit a lighter shade of green. Notes and
    Chords are always sent on MIDI Channel 1 in Ableton Live.
    Note: When Note and Chord Modes are active, selecting
    a MIDI track from APC64 will automatically arm it so you
    can immediately play and hear notes. The track arm
    button for the selected track in Ableton Live will turn light
    red to indicate it has been automatically armed.



5.2.3 Drum Tracks in Note Mode

When a drum track is selected in Ableton Live, the appearance
of Note Mode will automatically adjust to a traditional 4x4
drum pad layout, beginning in the bottom-left quadrant of the
pad grid. These pads will be lit according to the selected
track’s color.
    To play a drum note, press a pad. The played pad will be
    lit green while pressed, and then be lit white. Drum Notes
    are always sent on MIDI Channel 16 in Ableton Live.


If you are using more than 16 drum slots in the Ableton Live
drum rack, use the up and down cursors to shift the pad grid
selection by one row at a time. Press and hold SHIFT and press
the up and down cursors to shift the pad grid selection by
four rows at a time.


When using APC64 as a standalone controller, use use the track-specific Step Sequencer 5.3.1 Configuration
menu to set the track type to Drum to enbable the Drum-style Note Mode layout.


To adjust the MIDI note assignments for the drum pad layout, use the Drum1–16 Note options in the
5.6 Global Menu. These settings only affect the Drum Note layout in Step Sequencer mode and standalone
operation. Drum Note configuration is automatically assigned when controlling a drum track in Ableton Live.




                                                                                                        29
5.3      Step Sequencer

The Step Sequencer is used to create or edit clips by using the pad matrix as
“step buttons,” simulating the experience of a traditional step-sequencer-style
drum machine.
     To enter Step Sequencer mode, press the STEP SEQ button.


Use the Track Select 1–8 buttons to select one of the eight available Step
Sequence tracks. You can also switch between tracks using the left and right
cursors. The Track Select button for the current track will be brightly lit in
white.


Step Sequence tracks are internal to APC64 and do not correspond with Ableton Live tracks as shown in Session
View. This means you can send any of the eight Step Sequence tracks to any available track in Ableton Live.
By default, Ableton Live monitors and records MIDI on all available MIDI channels at once. To send specific Step
Sequencer tracks to specific Ableton Live tracks for recording, use the track-specific 5.3.1 Configuration menu
described in the following section to set the Step Sequencer tracks to individual MIDI channels (for instance,
Channels 4, 5, and 6). Then, set the MIDI From of desired tracks in Ableton Live to Channels 4, 5, and 6. Each
channel will now receive the correct MIDI data from the corresponding Step Sequencer track.




5.3.1 Configuration

The Step Sequencer has two Configuration modes: a Global Configuration mode for setting defaults across all
tracks, and a Track Configuration mode for setting parameters on specific tracks.
     To configure the global Step Sequencer settings, press the STEP SEQ button a second time while in Step
     Sequencer mode, or press and hold SHIFT and press STEP SEQ. You can also momentarily access the
     Configuration view by pressing and holding the STEP SEQ button while in Step Sequencer mode. When you
     release the button, you will return to Step Sequence mode.
     From here, you can adjust the following settings directly from the pads:
                C1          C2          C3          C4          C5          C6          C7          C8


        R1    Step 1      Step 2      Step 3      Step 4      Step 5      Step 6      Step 7      Step 8


        R2    Step 9     Step 10     Step 11     Step 12     Step 13     Step 14     Step 15     Step 16


        R3   Step 17     Step 18     Step 19     Step 20     Step 21     Step 22     Step 23     Step 24


        R4   Step 25     Step 26     Step 27     Step 28     Step 29     Step 30     Step 31     Step 32


        R5


             Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:
        R6
                1/4        1/4T         1/8        1/8T        1/16        1/16T       1/32        1/32T

        R7



        R8




30
Use Rows 1–4 to set the total length of the sequence in steps. When all tracks are set to the same length, the pad
for the value of the last step in the sequence will be lit green. If there are tracks with differing lengths, no selection
will be shown.


Use Row 6 to set the Time Division for the step sequencer. This determines the note length of each step:
          1/4                  1/8                   1/16                1/32
          1/4T                 1/8T                  1/16T               1/32T
If all tracks are set to the same time division, the selected value will be lit green. If there are tracks with differing
time divisions, no selection will be shown.


You can also use the encoder to change these values as shown on the display. Turn the encoder to browse
each Step Sequencer category. Press the encoder to open it, and then turn the encoder to browse the available
options. When you are finished, press the encoder again to confirm your selection. Some options in the display
will prompt you to select a track. See the following section for track-specific Step Sequencer settings.




              StepSeq Config
              1. Last Step
                32




To configure the track-specific Step Sequencer settings, press a TRACK SELECT button while the global Step
Sequencer configuration is open. You can also press and hold multiple TRACK SELECT buttons to edit more than
one track at a time. The TRACK SELECT button for the selected track(s) will be brightly lit in white. When editing
multiple tracks at once, selections may not be shown on the pad if they differ between the selected tracks.
From here, you can adjust the following settings directly from the pads:
                 C1               C2          C3          C4          C5          C6          C7           C8


        R1     Step 1           Step 2      Step 3      Step 4      Step 5      Step 6      Step 7       Step 8


        R2     Step 9          Step 10     Step 11     Step 12     Step 13     Step 14     Step 15      Step 16


        R3    Step 17          Step 18     Step 19     Step 20     Step 21     Step 22     Step 23      Step 24


        R4    Step 25          Step 26     Step 27     Step 28     Step 29     Step 30     Step 31      Step 32


             Track Type: Track Type:                    Swing                  Send to     Send to
        R5                                                                                             Send to CV
                Note        Drum                        Enable                  USB         MIDI

             Time Div:         Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:   Time Div:
        R6
                1/4              1/4T         1/8        1/8T        1/16        1/16T       1/32        1/32T

              MIDI Ch:         MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:     MIDI Ch:
        R7
                 1                2           3           4           5           6           7            8

              MIDI Ch:         MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:    MIDI Ch:     MIDI Ch:
        R8
                 9               10          11          12          13          14          15           16




                                                                                                                       31
Use Rows 1–4 to set the total length of the track’s sequence in steps. The pad for the value of the last step in the
sequence will be lit green. This will be set to the global Step Sequence length by default, but can be set to a
different value per track.


Use the Track Type pads (R5,C1–2) to set the type of track controlled by the step sequencer. Use Note type for
melodic tracks, and Drum type for drum tracks. The pad for the selected type will be lit green.


Use the Swing Enable pad (R5,C4) to turn swing timing On or Off when using the Step Sequencer. When
enabled, this pad will be lit green. The swing value can be set by pressing and holding the SHIFT and TEMPO
buttons, and then using the encoder to adjust the value between 50% (no swing) and 75% (heavy swing).


Use the Send To pads (R5,C6–8) to select where the track’s step sequencer data is sent: To USB (to a computer
connected to the USB Port), To MIDI (to devices connected to the MIDI Outputs), and/or To CV (to devices
connected to the CV Outputs). When enabled, the selected pad will be lit green.


Use Row 6 to set the Time Division for the the track’s step sequencer. This determines the note length of each
step:
         1/4                       1/8             1/16                1/32
         1/4T                      1/8T            1/16T               1/32T
This will be set to the global Time Division by default, but can be set to a different value per track.


Use Rows 8–9 to select the MIDI Channel that the track’s Step Sequencer data is sent on when connected to USB
or MIDI, from 1–16.


You can also use the encoder to change these values as shown on the display. Turn the encoder to browse each
Step Sequencer category. Press the encoder to open it, and then turn the encoder to browse the available
options. When you are finished, press the encoder again to confirm your selection.



                  StepSeq Config
                1. Last Step
                 32




5.3.2 Note Input Pads

The bottom-left quadrant of pads can be used to input notes. The function of these pads depends on the mode
selected:
     •   Drum Mode: In Drum Mode, the bottom-left quadrant of pads is used like a traditional 4x4 drum pad
         layout. You can adjust the MIDI note assignments for these pads in the 5.6 Global Menu.
     •   Note Mode: In Note Mode, the bottom-left quadrant of pads represents notes in a scale. The root note
         of the scale will be lit in the color of the selected track. Use the Note and Chord Mode Configuration to
         set the root note and scale type. You can also use the up and down cursors to move the starting note
         octave.
After selecting a mode, all the pads (in Drum Mode) or the root note pads (in Note Mode) will be lit according to
the selected track’s color. Press a pad to select the note and audition the pad’s sound. Press and hold SHIFT and
then press a pad to silently select it.




32
5.3.3 Step Pads

In Step Sequencer mode, the top four rows of pads represent the steps of the
sequence. The number of pads available depends on the size and number of
the steps. These can be adjusted using the Step Sequencer 5.3.1 Configuration
settings.


When no pads from the Note Input pads are selected, the top four rows will
show an overview of the sequence, where all steps with a note event added to it
are lit according to the track color. The brightness of the pad will also reflect the
velocity value or other modifier value for the note event. Unused steps will be
unlit.


When a single Note Input Pad is pressed and selected, only steps with the
selected note added to it will be lit in the top four rows. You can press unlit pads
in the top four rows to add the selected note to the selected step. See the 5.3.5
Recording Sequences section for more information.




If you press and hold on a filled step pad, all notes assigned to that step in the
Note Input Pads will be lit green. You can press these green pads in the Drum
Mode or Note Mode pad matrix to add or remove the notes assigned to that
step.




The current play position will be indicated by a green pad.
    To play the step sequence, press PLAY.
    To stop the step sequence, press STOP.
Step Sequences may also be managed and launched using APC64’s built-in
Project save slots. See the following 5.4 Project Mode chapter for more
information.




                                                                                        33
5.3.4 Modifer Pads

The bottom-right quadrant of pads is used to set the velocity or other modifier
value for each note. By default, this controls the Velocity value of each step.
You can swap between viewing VELOCITY, PROBABILITY, or MUTATE by
pressing the Rows 1–3 LAUNCH buttons on the right side of the pad grid when
in Step Sequencer mode.


When Velocity is selected, the pads control the note dynamics as follows:
             C5        C6          C7         C8


     R5     103        111        119        Full


     R6      71        79         87          95


     R7      39        47         55          63


     R8   As Played    15         23          31



When Probability is selected, the pads control the likelihood that the selected note is played, as follows:
             C5        C6          C7         C8


     R5     81%       87%         93%       100%


     R6     56%       62%         68%        75%


     R7     31%       37%         43%        50%


     R8      3%       12%         18%        25%



When Mutate is selected, the pads determine whether a step will be played at its set pitch or be transposed up
or down within one octave, as follows. The specific notes are determined by the currently selected key and scale.
Note: Mutate is available for Note type Step Sequencer tracks only.
             C5        C6          C7         C8


     R5     81%       87%         93%       100%


     R6     56%       62%         68%        75%


     R7     31%       37%         43%        50%


     R8      3%       12%         18%        25%




34
5.3.5 Recording Sequences

When you are ready to add notes to your sequence, you can do this in two ways. You can use the Note Input
Pads to manually add notes to steps, or you can record a performance from the pads into the sequence.
Note: You can add up to sixteen notes per step in a Drum sequence, and up to eight notes per step in a Note
sequence.

   To manually add a note to the sequence:
   1. Select a note pad from the bottom-left quadrant Note Input Pads.
   2. Press a pad in the Step Pads.
       The selected note will be added at the selected step.


   To remove a note from the sequence, do either of the following:
    • Select a note pad from the bottom-left quadrant Note Input Pads, and then press the Step Pad where you
      want to remove the note.
    • Use the Clear button, as described in the following section.


When inputting notes using the Note Input Pads, you can also create a tie so that a note is held over multiple
steps. This is not available when controlling a Drum Track.

   To add a tied note that stretches over multiple steps, press and hold SHIFT and then press the pad or
   pads adjacent to the step that you want tied. These pads will then be lit in white, and the note will be held
   throughout the number of steps marked.
   For instance, if you want to tie a note between Step 1 and Step 4, add the first note at Step 1, then press and
   hold SHIFT and press the Steps 2, 3, and 4 pads.
   Note: Tied notes will not be shown when viewing the sequence overview with no Note Input Pad selected.
   To remove a tie, release SHIFT and press the tied pad so it is dimly lit again.




                                                                                                               35
In addition to inputting notes manually using the Step Pads, you can also record a performance from the Note
Input Pads, or even Note and Chord Modes directly, into the Step Sequence.

     To record a performance into the Step Sequencer:
     1. Press the RECORD ARM Control Row Function button.
     2. Press the Control Row button for the Sequencer track that you want to record on. The button will be lit
        red, and the bottom line of the display will turn red to indicate recording is armed. Only one track may
        be armed at a time.
        Once the track is armed, the Note Input Pads will trigger sound on the selected track.
     3. Press PLAY to begin playback and recording of the sequence. (If the sequence is already playing, arming
        the track in the previous step will enable it to begin recording immediately.)
     4. Use the Note Input Pads to add notes, or switch to Note Mode or Chord Mode to add notes or chords.
        Notes will be added to the nearest step, snapping backward or forward as needed.
        Note: When connected to Ableton Live and live recording into the Step Sequencer using Note Mode or
        Chord Mode, it is recommended to set the Sequence MIDI Channel to Ch 1 in the track Configuration
        menu in order to match the Ableton Live track assignment and hear the audio as you play it.
     5. Recording will continue and begin overdubbing when the sequence returns to the beginning.
     6. To end recording, press the Control Row button for the selected track to disarm recording. Alternatively,
        press the STOP button to stop the sequence playback.
        To disable recording, disarm the track by pressing the RECORD ARM Control Row Function button and
        then pressing the Control Row button for the Sequencer track again.


When recording into the Step Sequencer, note lengths and note ties will not be recorded, and you will not be
able to manually enter notes using the Step Pads.




36
5.3.6 Editing Sequences

Use the CLEAR button to erase notes, steps, or tracks:
   To clear a note from a step, press the lit pad.
   To clear all steps containing a specific note, press and hold CLEAR and then
   press the desired Note Input pad.
   To clear all notes from a specific step, press and hold CLEAR and then press the
   desired Step Input pad.
   To clear an entire step sequence, press and hold CLEAR and then press the
   desired Track Select button.
Note: Step Sequencer editing cannot be undone.


Use the MUTE button to mute notes, steps, or tracks:
   To mute all notes on a specific step, press and hold the MUTE Control Row
   Function button, and then press the desired Step Input pad. The muted step pad
   will be lit bright yellow to indicate it has been muted. Repeat this process to
   unmute the step. No Note Input Pad may be selected when muting a specific
   step.
   To mute a specific note, press and hold the MUTE Control Row Function button,
   and then press the desired Note Input Pad. The muted Note Input Pad will be lit
   bright yellow to indicate it has been muted. Repeat this process to unmute the
   note.
   To mute an entire track, press the MUTE Control Row Function button, and then
   press the Control Row button for the desired track. Repeat this process to unmute
   the track.
   To clear all Mutes from the current track, press and hold CLEAR, and then press
   MUTE. All steps and notes will be unmuted and return to their previous state.
Note: Note, step, and track mutes are not saved as part of the sequence. Mutes will
render when using the 5.3.7 Send to Clip function to export the sequence into
Ableton Live.


Use the SOLO button to solo tracks. Press the SOLO Control Row Function button,
and then press the Control Row button for the desired track. Repeat this process to
disable solo for the track.




                                                                                       37
5.3.7 Send to Clip

If you would like to export the sequence you have made into Ableton Live, you can use the Send to Clip option
to capture the sequence data into a new clip.
     1. While connected to Ableton Live, select a MIDI track and a blank clip slot.
     2. On APC64 (while in Step Sequencer mode), select the track containing the sequence you want to send
        to a clip.
     3. Press and hold SHIFT so Send to Clip is shown in the display.
     4. Press the encoder to continue, or release SHIFT to return.
        Note: Only one track can send to a clip at a time. The sequencer must also be stopped to send to a clip.
        The display will show Stop Seq 1st to remind you to stop playback before continuing.
     5. The display will show Sending… as it prepares the clip, and then Done! once it has completed. You will
        now see the exported sequence clip in Session View.



               Send To Clip
               Note Track 1
                Press Enter




38
5.4      Project Mode

APC64 can save and load up to 24 projects in its internal memory. These projects
contain device and performance information, including:
   •     Step Sequence Mode parameters and patterns
   •     Note and Chord Mode parameters
   •     Global parameters
   •     Custom Mode assignments
These can be used to recall parameters for certain projects or as larger sequences for building a track for
recording or performance.
   To view the current projects, press the PROJECT button. The top three rows of pads will represent the 24
   available project slots.
   To load a project, press one of the 24 available project slot pads.


Projects may be selected and loaded while playback is active. In this way, you can queue up different sequences
or parameters sets during a performance without stopping playback.
   To initiate playback of a project, press PLAY. This will begin playing the data in the current project’s 5.3
   Step Sequencer.
   To stop project playback, press STOP.


The color of each Project pad provides information about its current save status and playback state:

      Pad Color          Project State
      Dim White          Empty project slot, playback stopped.
      Amber (Solid)      Selected project, playback stopped.
      Amber (Blinking)   Project with unsaved changes, playback stopped.
      Blue               Saved project, unselected.
      Green (Solid)      Selected project, playback in progress.
      Green (Pulsing)    Selected project with unsaved changes, playback in progress.
      White (Blinking)   Project in queue to play after playback of the current project is finished.
      Red (Blinking)     Project with unsaved changes is being navigated away from. Press the encoder
                         to confirm you wish to proceed without saving your changes.




                                                                                                            39
Playback of project sequences can also be chained together to create longer sequence patterns.
1. Press and hold a pad containing the first Project sequence you want to use.
2. While still holding the pad, press another Project slot. The currently selected Project pad will remain amber,
   and all pads between it and the second Project pad pressed will turn yellow.
3. Press PLAY to begin playback of the project sequence.
     All Projects between the two pads will then be chained together and play in sequence. For instance, if you
     press and hold Project 1 and then press Project 5, playback will move through Projects 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 before
     circling back to Project 1 again. The current and next projects will be shown in the display.



               Project Mode
               Curr Project: 5
               Next Project: 1




The sequence length for chained proejects is determined by the project with the most steps, regardless of the
track’s time division setting. For example, if Project 1 contains thirty-two 1/16 notes, and Project 2 contains sixteen
1/4 notes, when chained together the sequence length will follow Project 1.


Note: Only adjacent projects can be chained together to play in sequential order. You can rearrange your
projects using the SAVE AS function to place them in the correct order for sequential playback. See the following
5.4.1 Managing Projects section for more information.




40
5.4.1 Managing Projects

To save changes to a project in the current slot, press the row five LAUNCH / SAVE
button.




To save your changes to a new project slot:
1. Press the row six LAUNCH / SAVE TO… button.
2. Select another one of the 24 Project slots. The pad will begin blinking red.
3. Press the encoder to save the project to the selected slot.




To delete project information from a slot:
1. Press and hold the CLEAR button, and then press the desired Project pad.
2. Press the encoder to confirm deletion of the project.
    To cancel, press any other button on APC64.




To copy a project to another pad:
1. Press and hold the DUPLICATE button, and then press the desired Project pad.
2. Press the pad where you want to have the selected project copied. The project
   and all its settings will be saved into the new Project slot.




                                                                                     41
5.5     Touch Faders

APC64’s Touch Faders act as continuous controllers which can be used to
control the following parameters, selectable by pressing the desired Touch
Fader Control button:
     DEVICE: Device controls.
     VOLUME: Track volume.
     PAN: Track stereo panning.
     SEND: Track Sends.
     CHANNEL STRIP: Combination of Volume, Pan, and Sends for the
     selected track.
     OFF: Disables the touch faders.


To adjust a touch fader parameter, tap or drag your finger along the touch strip.
The current position of the touch fader is indicated by a white LED to the right of the fader. The remaining LEDs
may be lit according to the track color to indicate the current value position and its direction relative to the default
value.


To finely adjust a touch fader parameter, press and hold SHIFT and drag your finger along the touch strip.
While SHIFT is held, this will act as an increment/decrement control. Moving your finger up will increase the value
in small amounts, and moving your finger down will decrease it, regardless of where your finger was initially
placed along the touch fader.


To record automation with a touch fader:
1. Press the RECORD ARM button, and then press the TRACK SELECT button for the track(s) that you would
   like to record automation to.
2. Press the RECORD button to begin recording.
3. Touch or slide your finger along the touch strip to control the selected parameter.
4. When you are finished, press RECORD or STOP to stop recording.
     When automation has been recorded to a parameter that is being controlled by a touch fader, the white
     current position LED will be red instead of white.


To remove touch fader automation, press and hold CLEAR and then tap the desired touch fader.




42
Device
In Device Mode, the touch faders adjust up to eight parameters in a loaded instrument or
effect device on the current track.
Press and hold the DEVICE button and then use the up and down cursors to navigate
between banks of device parameters.
If you have more than one device on a track, press and hold the DEVICE button and then
use the left and right cursors to navigate between them.




Volume
Press the VOLUME button to adjust track volume with the touch faders. This includes Audio
and MIDI tracks, as well as Return tracks and the Master track.
If you have more than eight tracks (including Return tracks and the Master track), use the
cursors to change the track focus, and the touch faders will automatically map to the new
selection.
If you have less than eight tracks (including Return tracks), touch faders that are not currently
controlling a track will have their LEDs off, and the Master track will automatically map to
track eight.




                                                                                                    43
Pan
Press the PAN button to adjust track panning with the touch faders. This includes Audio and
MIDI tracks, as well as Return tracks and the Master track.
If you have more than eight tracks (including Return tracks and the Master track), use the
cursors to change the track focus, and the touch faders will automatically map to the new
selection.
If you have less than eight tracks (including Return tracks), touch faders that are not currently
controlling a track will have their LEDs off, and the Master track will automatically map to
track eight.
When controlling Pan, the Center stereo field position will be represented by a single white
LED in the middle of each touch fader’s LED layout. As you adjust the panning left or right,
the white dot will indicate the stereo position, and LEDs between this value and the center
position will be lit according to the track color.




Send
Press the SEND button to adjust track send controls. These controls send track audio to the
associated Return track.
Each touch fader will control a single Send level for the associated track. If you have more
than eight tracks (including Return tracks), use the cursors to change the track focus, and
the touch faders will automatically map to the new selection.
If you have less than eight tracks (including Return tracks), touch faders that are not currently
controlling a track will have their LEDs off.
If you have multiple Return tracks, press the SEND button again to cycle between the Send
controls for each track. For instance, if you have Return Tracks A, B, and C, the touch faders
will control the A Sends for all tracks on first press, then B Sends for all tracks on second
press, and so on. As you move your finger along the touch fader, the display will indicate
which Send control is being adjusted.



                 1-AcdBss
                  B-Delay
                 -20.233




44
Channel Strip
Press the CHANNEL STRIP button to control multiple parameters on a single channel. This
includes Volume (fader 1), Pan (fader 2), and Send controls. The number of available touch
faders will depend on the number of Return tracks in your session.
Use the Track Select buttons to choose which track is in focus, or press the left and right
cursors to change track focus.




Off
Press the OFF button to disable the touch fader controls.




                                                                                              45
5.6     Global Menu

The Global Menu is used to customize the hardware device settings of APC64,
including swapping between Ableton Live control and Standalone Mode.
     To open the Global Menu, press and hold SHIFT and then press CUSTOM. You
     can also press and hold the CUSTOM / GLOBAL button while in Custom Mode
     to momentarily view Global Mode. When you release the button, you will return
     to Custom Mode.


Turn the encoder to browse the menu options on the display. Press the encoder to
open a setting, and then turn the encoder to browse the available options. Press the
encoder again to select an option and return to the Global configuration menu.



                Global Config
             1. Device Mode
              Ableton Live




       # Setting                Values             Notes
       1. Device Mode           Ableton Live       The device may be used while connected to a computer
                                                   running Ableton Live.
                                Standalone         The device may be used disconnected from the computer
                                                   as a standalone device.
       2. Standalone Sync       Internal           Tempo is synced by the internal MIDI clock.
                                USB                Tempo is synced by MIDI clock data sent to the USB port.
                                MIDI-DIN           Tempo is synced by MIDI clock data sent to the MIDI In port.
       3. Sync Out USB          Off, On            Enables or disables the USB port from sending out internal
                                                   MIDI clock.
       4. Sync Out MIDI         Off, On            Enables or disables the MIDI Out port from sending out
                                                   internal MIDI clock.
 5. – 19. CV1–8 Source          Pitch-Last         See the 5.8 CV Operation chapter for more information.
  (odd)                         Pitch-Low
                                Pitch-High
                                Gate-Last
                                Gate-Low
                                Gate-High
                                Gate-Legato
                                Vel-Last
                                Vel-Low
                                Vel-High
                                Vel-Legato
                                Aftertouch
                                CC16–23
                                Fader 1–8
                                Drum Pad 1–16
                                None


46
     # Setting           Values            Notes
6. – 20. CV1–8 Channel   1–16              See the 5.8 CV Operation chapter for more information.
 (even)
  21. – Drum1–16 Note:   C-2 – G+8         Selects the MIDI note value for the 4x4 pad layout when
   36.                                     controlling a drum instrument.
                                           These values are by default mapped to correspond with
                                           Ableton Live’s Drum Rack. Changing the values could result
                                           in misaligned mapping when controlling Ableton Live.
   37. LED Level         25, 50, 75, 100% Sets the overall brightness level of the device LEDs.
   38. Factory Reset     Off, On           Select On to perform a factory reset, reverting all settings
                                           to default. After selecting On, a second menu will appear
                                           asking you to confirm. Press the encoder again to initiate
                                           the reset. Press any other button to return to the Global
                                           Configuration menu.




                                                                                                          47
You can also select menu options directly from the pads. When the Device Mode is set to Ableton Live (R3,C1
selected), the pads can be used as follows:


              C1          C2          C3        C4           C5         C6          C7          C8


             CV1         CV2         CV3       CV4         CV5         CV6         CV7         CV8
     R1
            Source      Source      Source    Source      Source      Source      Source      Source


     R2



            Device       Device
     R3     Mode:        Mode:
          Ableton Live Standalone


     R4



           Drum13       Drum14      Drum15    Drum16
     R5
            Note         Note        Note      Note


            Drum9       Drum10      Drum11    Drum12
     R6
             Note        Note        Note      Note


            Drum5       Drum6       Drum7     Drum8
     R7
             Note        Note        Note      Note


            Drum1       Drum2       Drum3     Drum4
     R8
             Note        Note        Note      Note



Press a CV Source (Row 1) or Drum Note (R5–8, C1–4) pad to open that menu option, and then use the encoder
to adjust the value. Press the encoder to confirm.


Press the Device Mode buttons (R3, C1–2) to select the active mode.




48
When the Device Mode is set to Standalone (R3,C2 selected), the pads can be used as follows:


             C1          C2          C3         C4          C5          C6            C7           C8


            CV1         CV2         CV3        CV4         CV5         CV6          CV7          CV8
    R1
           Source      Source      Source     Source      Source      Source       Source       Source


    R2



           Device       Device                                      Standalone    Standalone   Standalone
    R3     Mode:        Mode:                                          Sync:         Sync:        Sync:
         Ableton Live Standalone                                      Internal       USB        MIDI-DIN

                                                                     SyncOut
    R4
                                                                    USB On/Off


          Drum13       Drum14      Drum15    Drum16                  SyncOut
    R5
           Note         Note        Note      Note                  MIDI On/Off


           Drum9       Drum10      Drum11    Drum12
    R6
            Note        Note        Note      Note


           Drum5       Drum6       Drum7      Drum8
    R7
            Note        Note        Note       Note


           Drum1       Drum2       Drum3      Drum4
    R8
            Note        Note        Note       Note




Press a CV Source (Row 1) or Drum Note (R5–8, C1–4) pad to open that menu option, and then use the encoder
to adjust the value. Press the encoder to confirm.


Press the Device Mode pad (R3, C1–2) to select the active mode.


Use the Standalone Sync pads (R4–5, C6–8) to select where APC64’s internal tempo is synced from: Internal
(the tempo is generated by APC64’s built-in MIDI Clock), USB (from a computer connected to the USB Port) or
MIDI (from a device connected to the MIDI Input). When enabled, the selected pad will be lit green.


Use the Sync Out pads (R4–5, C6) to select where APC64’s internal tempo is sent to: USB (to a computer
connected to the USB Port) or MIDI (to devices connected to the MIDI Outputs). When enabled, the selected
pad will be lit green. Both options may be enabled at once, or neither.




                                                                                                            49
5.7     Custom Mode

APC64’s Custom Mode allows you to modify the functions of the pad grid and touch
faders, particularly for using APC64 in standalone mode. You can adjust MIDI
assignments, pad and fader LED colors, and even create customized pad layouts for
any use.
     To open Custom Mode, press the CUSTOM button.


Custom Mode assignments are edited using the APC64 Project Editor software, which is described in the
following section.


5.7.1 Using the APC64 Project Editor Software

5.7.1.1 Download and Installation

To download the included APC64 Project Editor software, register your device at profile.inmusicbrands.com.
If you do not already have an account, you will be prompted to create one. Once you are signed in, you can
download the editor from your Account by selecting APC64 from your registered products.
You can also visit akaipro.com to find the latest system requirements and compatibility information.
For additional product support, visit akaipro.com/support.


Windows®
1. Follow the instructions above to register your product and download your software.
2. Double-click the .exe installer file you downloaded.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions.


macOS®
1. Follow the instructions above to register your product and download your software.
2. Double-click the .pkg installer file you downloaded.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions.




50
5.7.1.2 Setup and Overview

To use the APC64 Project Editor:
1. Optional: Connect APC64 to your computer using one of the included USB-C® cables. You can still use the
   editor without connecting an APC64, but you will not be able to send Projects to it or load (get) Projects from
   it.
2. Open the APC64 Project Editor. The right side of the window will show a graphical representation of your
   APC64, and the left side of the window will show the pad layout presets and editable parameters for the
   selected control.
    Click a part of the image below to jump directly to that section.




                                                                                                               51
5.7.1.3 Editing

Click a pad in the pad grid to edit the assignments for an individual pad.




 • Note: Sets the MIDI note that the pad will play.
 • Octave: Sets the octave of the MIDI note.
 • MIDI Channel: Sets the MIDI channel that the note is played on.
 • Poly On/Off: Enables or disables the pad from sending poly aftertouch messages.
 • Send to USB: Enables or disables the pad from sending note data over USB.
 • Send to MIDI: Enables or disables the pad from sending note data over MIDI.
 • Send to CV: Enables or disables the pad from sending note data over CV.
 • Pad On Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is pressed.
 • Pad Off Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is released.
Note: When editing colors, you can click on the color swatch to open the color picker to select a new color. You
can also directly enter a hex code in the field next to the color swatch, or in the color picker window.


Use the Show LED Color option to switch between the Pad Off color and Pad On color from displaying in the
window.




52
In addition to setting assignments per pad, you can choose from three preset pad layouts to add to the pad grid.
• Drum Pads: Adds a classic 4x4 drum layout.
• Scale Keyboard: Adds a configurable scale to a single row of pads.
• Chromatic Keyboard: Adds a representation of a traditional chromatic piano key layout over two rows of
  pads.




To apply a pad layout, click and drag a pad layout to the desired location on the pad grid.
To edit the pad layout assignments, click the outlined layout in the pad grid. You can then edit the assignments
shown below.
To remove a pad layout, right-click on the group in the pad grid, and then select Remove Pad Group.




                                                                                                             53
Drum Group




• Root Note: Sets the starting note of the pad group.
• Base Octave: Sets the starting octave for the pad group.
• MIDI Channel: Sets the MIDI Channel of the pad group (1–16).
• Poly On/Off: Enables or disables the pad group from sending poly aftertouch messages.
• Send to USB: Enables or disables the pad group from sending note data over USB.
• Send to MIDI: Enables or disables the pad group from sending note data over MIDI.
• Send to CV: Enables or disables the pad group from sending note data over CV.
• Pads On Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is pressed. You can enter a hex value or use the color
  picker to select a color.
• Pads Off Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is released.




54
Scaled Keyboard Group




• Root Note: Sets the starting note of the scale.
• Root Octave: Sets the starting octave for the root note for the scaled keyboard group.
• MIDI Channel: Sets the MIDI Channel of the scaled keyboard group.
• Scale: Sets the type of scale used for the keyboard group.
• Poly On/Off: Enables or disables the scaled keyboard group from sending poly aftertouch messages.
• Send to USB: Enables or disables the scaled keyboard group from sending note data over USB.
• Send to MIDI: Enables or disables the scaled keyboard group from sending note data over MIDI.
• Send to CV: Enables or disables the scaled keyboard group from sending note data over CV.
• Pad On Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is pressed. You can enter a hex value or use the color
  picker to select a color.
• Pad Off Root Color: Sets the color of the root note pad when the note is released.
• Pad Off Scale Color: Sets the color of the non-root note pads when the note is released.




                                                                                                           55
Chromatic Group




• Root Note: Sets the starting note of the scale.
• Base Octave: Sets the starting octave for the chromatic group.
• MIDI Channel: Sets the MIDI Channel of the chromatic group.
• Poly On/Off: Enables or disables the chromatic group from sending poly aftertouch messages.
• Send to USB: Enables or disables the chromatic group from sending note data over USB.
• Send to MIDI: Enables or disables the chromatic group from sending note data over MIDI.
• Send to CV: Enables or disables the chromatic group from sending note data over CV.
• Pad On Color: Sets the color of the pad when the note is pressed. You can enter a hex value or use the color
  picker to select a color.
• Pad Off Root Color: Sets the color of the root note pad when the note is released.
• Pad Off Scale Color: Sets the color of the non-root note pads when the note is released.




56
Click on a Fader to edit the assignments for the associated touch fader control.




 • Message Type: Sets whether the fader message type is Single (1 CC) or Double (2 CC).
 • CC 1 / CC 2: Sets the continuous controller value for the fader. CC 2 is only available when Message Type
   has been set to Double (2 CC). They CC function will be shown when a new value is entered.
 • Note: Sets the note value sent by the fader. Set this to Off to disable sending a note value.
 • Octave: Sets the octave of the set note value. This option is not available when Note has been set to Off.
 • MIDI Channel: Sets the MIDI Channel of the fader.
 • Fader Style: Sets whether the Fader Tip begins at the bottom of the fader (Volume) or the middle of the
   fader (Pan). Use Volume for unidirectional parameters, and Pan for bidirectional parameters.
 • Send to USB: Enables or disables the fader from sending note data over USB.
 • Send to MIDI: Enables or disables the fader from sending note data over MIDI.
 • Fader Color: Sets the main fader LED color.
 • Tip Color: Sets the fader LED color for the fader position LED.




                                                                                                                57
5.7.1.4 Managing Presets

APC64’s Projects can be saved as preset files that contain all the MIDI assignments you make in the editor. Using
Projects lets you maintain many different control configurations to use in different situations. For instance, you
may use different presets for different performances, or use other presets for production with different software.
APC64 can store a maximum of 24 Projects, and you can store additional Projects on your computer to load onto
APC64 with this editor.


Send Project
After you create custom MIDI assignments using the editor, you can send
that preset to be stored in one of APC64’s Project slots.
     To send a Project:
     1. Go to File > Send Project (Windows) or APC64 Project Editor >
        Send Project (macOS).
     2. In the window that appears, select the desired Project slot. Use the
        RAM option to send the preset to the device without saving it to a
        slot. This lets you try out the preset’s assignments without
        “committing” them to a particular Project. If you decide that you like
        the results, you can save them to your computer or send them to a
        specific Project slot.
     3. Click Send Project to send it to the device, or Cancel to return to
        the Editor.


Get Project
If you want to edit an existing preset on APC64 using the Editor, you can
use the Get Project option to retrieve the current MIDI assignments.
     To import a Project:
     1. Go to File > Get Project (Windows) or APC64 Project Editor >
        Get Project (macOS).
     2. In the window that appears, select the Project slot that you want to
        import into the Editor. Use the RAM option to retrieve the active
        MIDI assignments, even if they have not been saved to a Project
        slot.
     3. Click Get Project to send it to the device, or click Cancel to return
        to the Editor.




58
Save Project
If you want to save a particular Project on your computer so you can access it later, use the Save Project option.
    To save a Project:
    1. Go to File > Save Project (Windows) or APC64 Project Editor > Save Project (macOS).
    2. Select a desired location on your computer to store the file.
    3. Click Save to save the file as an .APC64 file, or click Cancel to return to the Editor.


Open Project
Projects saved to your computer can be reopened in the Editor to make further changes or send them to your
device:
    To open a saved Project:
    1. Go to File > Open Project (Windows) or APC64 Project Editor > Open Project (macOS).
    2. Locate the desired .APC64 file using the file browser.
    3. Click Open to load the Project into the editor, or click Cancel to return to the Editor.




                                                                                                                59
5.7.1.5 Global Settings

In addition to managing Projects using the Project Editor, you can also manage the APC64 Global Settings. Your
APC64 must be connected to the computer in order to open this window and adjust the settings.
     To open the Global Settings, Go to File > Global Settings (Windows) or APC64 Project Editor > Global
     Settings (macOS).




From this window, you can adjust the following settings:
• Current Mode: Sets whether APC64 is operating in Live Mode or Standalone Mode.
• LED Brightness: Adjusts the overall brightness level of the device LEDs to 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100%.
• Pad Sensitivty: Adjusts how responsive the pads are. Set to Default for standard sensitivity. Set to Low to
  allow for stronger playing, or High to lighter playing.
• Sync Source: Sets whether the Tempo is synced by the Internal MIDI clock, by MIDI clock data sent to the
  USB port, or by MIDI clock data sent to the MIDI DIN input.
• Sync Destination: Enables or disables whether the internal MIDI clock is sent from the USB port (Send to
  USB) or MIDI DIN output (Send to MIDI).
• CV Settings: These settings determine what type of MIDI messages each CV port receives, and what MIDI
  channel each CV port receives messages from. See the following 5.8 CV Operation chapter for more
  information.
• Step Sequencer Drum Note Assignments: Selects the MIDI note value for the 4x4 pad layout when
  controlling a drum instrument in the Step Sequencer. These values are by default mapped to correspond with
  Ableton Live’s Drum Rack. Changing the values could result in misaligned mapping when controlling Ableton
  Live.




60
To retrieve the current Global Device Settings from
APC64, click the Get button. The changes will be applied
immediately.
To send the Global Device Settings to APC64, click the
Send button. The changes will be applied immediately, and
the Global Settings window will close.
To save the Global Device Settings from the Project Editor,
click the Save button. Use the file browser to select a desired
location on your computer to store the .APC64GlobalSettings
file, and then click Save.
To load a previously saved Global Device Settings file into
the Project Editor, click the Load button. Use the file browser
to locate the desired .APC64GlobalSettings file, and then
click Open.




                                                                  61
5.8     CV Operation

APC64 features eight CV/Gate ports which can be used to connect to and control other CV-compatible devices,
such as synthesizers or drum machines. Use standard 1/8” (3.5 mm) TS cables to send a single CV/Gate signal per
output.


Use APC64’s 5.6 Global Menu to access the following CV setup options:


The CV1–8 Source options (odd numbers between 5 and 19 in the Global Menu) determine what type of MIDI
messages the CV port receives.
     Pitch: Note messages are sent as CV Pitch messages.
      • Last: The pitch will change to its new value each time a note message is received.
      • Low: The pitch will change when the new note value is lower than the current value.
      • High: The pitch will change the new note value is higher than the current value.


     Gate: Note messages are sent as Gate messages, which open and close to trigger note ons and note offs.
      • Last: The gate is retriggered each time a note message is received.
      • Low: The gate is retrigged when the new note value is lower than the current value.
      • High: The gate is retrigged when the new note value is higher than the current value.
      • Legato: The gate is only retrigged when all held notes are released and then a new note is triggered.


     Velocity: Note messages are translated into velocity values, variable between 0–5 V.
      • Last: The velocity will change each time a note message is received.
      • Low: The velocity will change when the new note value is lower than the current value.
      • High: The velocity will change when the new note value is higher than the current value.
      • Legato: The velocity will change when all held notes are released and then a new note is triggered.


     Aftertouch: Channel aftertouch messages on the current channel are sent as a variable CV signal between
     0–5 V.


     CC 16–23: Continuous controller (CC) messages on the current channel are sent as a variable CV signal
     between 0–5 V.


     Fader 1–8: Messages from the selected fader are sent as a variable CV signal between 0–5 V.


     Drum 01–16: The selected drum pad will send a gate message when pressed.


The CV1–8 Channel options (even numbers between 6 and 20 in the Global Menu) determine what MIDI channel
each CV port receives messages from.




62
5.8.1 CV Connection Examples

The following examples describe how to connect the CV/Gate outputs on your APC64 to an external device such
as a modular or semi-modular analog synthesizer with CV/Gate inputs. In these examples, APC64 will connect to
the Moog Music Mother-32 semi-modular analog synthesizer, but the instructions can apply to any device with
comparable connections.


5.8.1.1 Standalone Connections

First, set up pitch and gate control to send note information from APC64 in standalone mode to your device.
   1. In the 5.6 Global Menu, set the CV1 Source option to Pitch-Last. This will send pitch information (such
      as notes being played in Note Mode) to your device. Since the CV output is monophonic, the pitch will
      change each time a new note is received when set to Pitch-Last.
   2. Next, set the CV2 Source option to Gate-Last. This will trigger a new note on message each time a new
      note is played.
   3. Connect the CV1 output to your external CV device. This will usually be connected to a VCO input; in this
      case, connect to the VCO 1V/OCT input on Mother-32.
   4. Connect the CV2 output to your external CV device. This will usually be connected to a Gate input; in this
      case, connect to the Gate input on Mother-32.
   5. Enter Note Mode on APC64 and begin playing the pads. Your external device should begin responding
      to each new note event.


For even greater note control, you can continue by setting up Veloctiy and Aftertouch.
   1. In the 5.6 Global Menu, set the CV3 Source option to Velocity-Last. This will send velocity MIDI data to
      your device each time a new value is received.
   2. Next, set the CV4 Source option to Aftertouch. This will send send poly aftertouch MIDI data to your
      device.
   3. Connect the CV3 output to your external CV device. This will usually be connected to a VCA or Velocity
      input; in this case, connect to the VCA CV input on Mother-32.
   4. Connect the CV4 output to your external CV device. This will usually be connected to ome kind of
      modulation input; in this case, try connecting to the VCO Mod input on Mother-32 to use aftertouch to
      control the amount of modulation applied to the signal.
   5. Enter Note Mode on APC64 and begin playing the pads. Your external device should now respond to
      velocity and aftertouch messages.


Next, try setting up fader control to use APC64’s touch faders to control other parameters on your device.
   1. In the 5.6 Global Menu, set the CV5 Source option to Fader 1. This will send data from APC64’s Touch
      Fader 1 to your device.
   2. Connect the CV3 output to the CV input of the external device parameter that you want to control. In this
      case, connect to the Mix CV input on Mother-32, allowing you to use the fader to crossfade between the
      VCO waveform and external audio/white noise.
   3. As you move your finger up and down the touch fader, the fader’s values will be converted by APC64 and
      sent to your external CV device to control the selected parameter.
Note: You can customize the CC number, range, and behavior of the touch fader using the APC64 Project Editor
Software to further customize fader control. For instance, in the example above you could set the Fader Style to
Pan so that the fader begins at the midpoint of the Mix control and can be moved up or down to adjust the mix
balance.




                                                                                                              63
You can also use the internal Step Sequencer as a control for your external device. You can use the same setups
as above to control pitch, gate, and velocity from the Step Sequencer data, or you can use the Drum Pad source
options to use the CV outputs as gate triggers based on your sequence.
     1. In the 5.6 Global Menu, set the CV1–8 Source options to Drum Pad 1–8.
     2. Connect the CV1–8 outputs to the inputs of an external CV device. In this example, you could connect
        these to trigger inputs or to the inputs of other settings that can be open and closed using a gate.
     3. Open the 5.3 Step Sequencer, and then use drum pads 1–8 to create a rhythmic sequence.
     4. When you play the sequence, each drum pad note event will send a gate message to the CV device. You
        can use this to trigger notes or rhythmically manipulate other parameters.




5.8.1.2 Connections with Ableton Live

In addition to controlling note information from APC64 in standalone mode, you can use APC64 as an interface
between Ableton Live and your external CV device.


Begin again by setting up pitch, gate, and velocity control, except this time the MIDI data will come from a track
in Ableton Live.
     1. Make sure your device is in Ableton Live mode in the 5.6 Global Menu and open Ableton Live.
     2. Follow the same steps above to set the CV1 Source option to Pitch, the CV2 Source to Gate, and the
        CV3 Source to Velocity, and connect the CV1–3 outputs to the same inputs on your device.
     3. In the Global Menu, set the CV1–3 Channels to the desired MIDI Channel; in this example, set this to 11.
     4. In Ableton Live, create a new MIDI Track, and then set the MIDI To output to APC64.
     5. Set the track’s MIDI To channel to the same channel as the CV1–3 Channels, in this case Ch. 11.
     6. Create a new MIDI clip in your Ableton Live track, and then use the clip editor to add note information to
        it.
     7. When you launch the clip in Ableton Live, the pitch, note on/off, and velocity MIDI note data will be
        converted by APC64 and sent to your external CV device.


You can also use Ableton Live to send MIDI CC data to control other parameters like modulation on your external
CV device. Continue by building on the setup above.
     1. In the 5.6 Global Menu, set the CV4 Source option to CC 16, and the CV4 Channel to 11.
     2. Connect the CV4 output to the CV input of the external device parameter that you want to control. In this
        case, try connecting to the VCO Mod input on Mother-32 to use MIDI CC to control the amount of
        modulation applied to the signal.
     3. In the MIDI track you created above (with MIDI To set to APC64 and Ch.11), add automation using MIDI
        CC 16. You can add this to your clip in Session View (using Clip Envelopes) or to your recording in
        Arrangement View (using Automation Mode).
     4. Launch the clip again, and this time the MIDI CC 16 automation will be converted by APC64 and sent to
        your external device to control the selected parameter.




64
6.0 Appendix

6.1     Technical Specifications

Display                                 Graphical full color LCD

Connections                             USB-C®
                                        8 1/8” (3.5 mm) CV/Gate
                                        2 1/8” (3.5 mm) MIDI Output
                                        1 1/8” (3.5 mm) MIDI Input

Dimensions                              10.7” x 14.6” x 1.4”
(width x depth x height)                272 x 371 x 34.5 mm

Weight                                  3.5 lb
                                        1.6 kg

Specifications are subject to change without notice.
Model: ADAB




6.2     Trademarks & Licenses

Akai Professional is a trademark of inMusic Brands, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Ableton, the Ableton Logo, and the Live logo are trademarks of Ableton AG.
Kensington and the K & Lock logo are registered trademarks of ACCO Brands.
Moog is a trademark of Moog Music, Inc. Registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. Moog
products are produced by inMusic Brands, Inc., Cumberland, RI 02864 U.S.A.
macOS is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.
All other product names, company names, trademarks, or trade names are those of their respective owners.




                                                                                                           65
AKAIPRO.COM




 Manual Version 1.0.0
