--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Getting Started Guide
--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
What’s in the box?

The Novation Launch Control XL





USB cable





Software / Registration card
--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
Getting Started
Overview
Launch Control XL: the perfect partner for Ableton Live performers. Smoothly mix your tracks
with 8 long throw faders and tweak your effects, instruments, and DAW controls with 24 Visual
Mode Indicator knobs and 16 three-colour performance buttons - showing you exactly what’s at
your fingertips from a single glance.

With Ableton Live Lite and 1GB of world class Loopmasters sample content in the box, Launch
Control XL is all you need to make and mix your music. With the same form factor as Launchpad S
it’s the best companion to the Launchpad grid.


                                                                 2      1
                                                                 6

      3
                                                                 7



      4                                                          8



      5


Hardware Features
1 USB socket
2 Kensington security slot
3 24 rotary pots with centre detent
4 8 faders
5 16 programmable buttons
6 2 buttons for switch templates
7 4 buttons for navigation and further switching
8 4 programmable buttons for changing function of effects
--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
Getting Started Continued...
Registering your product
Please register your product as this will give you access to the included software, drivers,
documentation and more.
You can register your Launch Control XL online at: www.novationmusic.com/register

Connecting Launch Control XL to a computer or iPad
Mac/PC
Launch Control XL is a class compliant USB MIDI device, therefore no drivers are required for use
with a computer. Simply connect Launch Control XL to your computer as shown below.





iPad
Launch Control XL can be connected to an Apple iPad. An Apple Camera Connection Kit is
required (not included). Launch Control XL will power from the iPad.





Note: To use the Launch Control XL with an iPad you must switch it to low power mode. To do
this hold down both the User and Factory Template buttons and insert the USB cable. Release
the Template buttons and press ‘Record Arm’.* Finally press the right arrow button.

The Launch Control XL is now in low power mode. This setting is remembered even if the power
is disconnected.

* To put the Launch Control XL back into full power mode repeat the above process but press
‘Solo’ instead of ‘Record Arm’.
--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
Installing the software





Mac/PC
Follow the  instructions on the ‘Software  /  Registration  card’ to download the software
and documentation.

Template Switching and the Template Editor

Crafting the perfect mix has never been easier. The included software editor allows you to design
your own templates, placing the power of Ableton right at your fingertips. You can even customise
knobs with your own colours, and effortlessly switch between your own mappings and Live’s built-
in functionality.

Template Switching
To switch template press and hold either the User or Factory template buttons. The bottom row
of pads then will light up, with the selected template brightly lit. Press pads 1-8 to select template
1-8.

Factory Templates
8 factory templates are available. These output a fixed set of MIDI CCs (pots, LED colours and
mode buttons) and Notes (Pads).

User Templates
8 user templates are available. These output MIDI CCs (pots and mode buttons) and Notes (Pads),
but are user editable. You can also select from a colour palette for the LEDs under the pots and store
your choices.
--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
Launch Control XL Template Editor
To download the Launch Control XL Editor software go to components.novationmusic.com





Launch Control XL with Ableton Live
Launch Control XL is fully integrated with Ableton Live. Please ensure that you have the most up
to date version. Go to ableton.com to download the latest installers.

We’ve included a free copy of Ableton Live Lite. Installers and unlock codes are available by
registering your product at the web page above.

Support
THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING THE NOVATION LAUNCH CONTROL XL
For customer support, please contact us online: support.novationmusic.com
Novation is a registered trademark of Focusrite Audio Engineering Ltd.
Launch Control XL is a trademark of Focusrite Audio Engineering Ltd., 2014
--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
